1Adonai said to Moshe, 2“Speak to the people of Isra’el; tell them, ‘I am Adonai your God. 3You are not to engage in the activities found in the land of Egypt, where you used to live; and you are not to engage in the activities found in the land of Kena‘an, where I am bringing you; nor are you to live by their laws. 4You are to obey my rulings and laws and live accordingly; I am Adonai your God. 5You are to observe my laws and rulings; if a person does them, he will have life through them; I am Adonai.
(LY: vi) 6“‘None of you is to approach anyone who is a close relative in order to have sexual relations; I am Adonai. 7You are not to have sexual relations with your father, and you are not to have sexual relations with your mother. She is your mother — do not have sexual relations with her. 8You are not to have sexual relations with your father’s wife; that is your father’s prerogative. 9You are not to have sexual relations with your sister, the daughter of your father or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home or elsewhere. Do not have sexual relations with them. 10You are not to have sexual relations with your son’s daughter or with your daughter’s daughter. Do not have sexual relations with them, because their sexual disgrace will be your own. 11You are not to have sexual relations with your father’s wife’s daughter, born to your father, because she is your sister; do not have sexual relations with her. 12You are not to have sexual relations with your father’s sister, because she is your father’s close relative. 13You are not to have sexual relations with your mother’s sister, because she is your mother’s close relative. 14You are not to disgrace your father’s brother by having sexual relations with his wife, because she is your aunt. 15You are not to have sexual relations with your daughter-in-law; because she is your son’s wife. Do not have sexual relations with her. 16You are not to have sexual relations with your brother’s wife, because this is your brother’s prerogative.
17“‘You are not to have sexual relations with both a woman and her daughter, nor are you to have sexual relations with her son’s daughter or her daughter’s daughter; they are close relatives of hers, and it would be shameful. 18You are not to take a woman to be a rival with her sister and have sexual relations with her while her sister is still alive. 19You are not to approach a woman in order to have sexual relations with her when she is unclean from her time of niddah. 20You are not to go to bed with your neighbor’s wife and thus become unclean with her.
21“‘You are not to let any of your children be sacrificed to Molekh, thereby profaning the name of your God; I am Adonai.
(RY: iv, LY: vii) 22“‘You are not to go to bed with a man as with a woman; it is an abomination.
23“‘You are not to have sexual relations with any kind of animal and thus become unclean with it; nor is any woman to present herself to an animal to have sexual relations with it; it is perversion.
24“‘Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things, because all the nations which I am expelling ahead of you are defiled with them. 25The land has become unclean, and this is why I am punishing it — the land itself will vomit out its inhabitants. 26But you are to keep my laws and rulings and not engage in any of these disgusting practices, neither the citizen nor the foreigner living with you; (LY: Maftir) 27for the people of the land have committed all these abominations, and the land is now defiled. 28If you make the land unclean, it will vomit you out too, just as it is vomiting out the nation that was there before you. 29For those who engage in any of these disgusting practices, whoever they may be, will be cut off from their people. 30So keep my charge not to follow any of these abominable customs that others before you have followed and thus defile yourselves by doing them. I am Adonai your God.’”
Haftarah Acharei Mot: Yechezk’el (Ezekiel) 22:1–19 (A); 22:1–16 (S)
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah Acharei Mot: Romans 3:19–28; 9:30 –10:13; 1 Corinthians 5:1–13 with 2 Corinthians 2:1–11; Galatians 3:10–14; Messianic Jews (Hebrews) 7:23–10:25
Parashah 30: K’doshim (Holy people) 19:1–20:27
[In regular years read with Parashah 29, in leap years read separately]
