1“‘This is the law for the guilt offering: it is especially holy. 2They are to slaughter the guilt offering in the place where they slaughter the burnt offering, and its blood is to be splashed against all sides of the altar. 3He is to offer all its fat — the fat tail, the fat covering the inner organs, 4the two kidneys, the fat on them near the flanks, and the covering of the liver, which he will remove with the kidneys. 5The cohen will make them go up in smoke on the altar as an offering made by fire to Adonai ; it is a guilt offering. 6Every male from a family of cohanim may eat it; it is to be eaten in a holy place; it is especially holy. 7The guilt offering is like the sin offering; the same law governs them — it will belong to the cohen who uses it to make atonement.
8“‘The cohen who offers someone’s burnt offering will possess the hide of the burnt offering which he has offered.
9“‘Every grain offering baked in the oven, cooked in a pot or fried on a griddle will belong to the cohen who offers it. 10But every grain offering which is mixed with olive oil or is dry will belong to all the sons of Aharon equally.
(iii) 11“‘This is the law for sacrificing peace offerings offered to Adonai: 12If a person offers it for giving thanks, he is to offer it with the thanksgiving sacrifice of unleavened cakes mixed with olive oil, matzah spread with olive oil, and cakes made of fine flour mixed with olive oil and fried. 13With cakes of leavened bread he is to present his offering together with the sacrifice of his peace offerings for giving thanks. 14From each kind of offering he is to present one as a gift for Adonai; it will belong to the cohen who splashes the blood of the peace offerings against the altar. 15The meat of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for giving thanks is to be eaten on the day of his offering; he is not to leave any of it until morning. 16But if the sacrifice connected with his offering is for a vow or is a voluntary offering, then, while it is to be eaten on the day he offers his sacrifice, what remains of it may be eaten the next day. 17However, what remains of the meat of the sacrifice on the third day is to be burned up completely. 18If any of the meat of the sacrifice of his peace offerings is eaten on the third day, the sacrifice will neither be accepted nor credited to the person offering it; rather, it will have become a disgusting thing, and whoever eats it will bear the consequences of his wrongdoing. 19Meat which touches something unclean is not to be eaten but burned up completely. As for the meat, everyone who is clean may eat it; 20but a person in a state of uncleanness who eats any meat from the sacrifice of peace offerings made to Adonai will be cut off from his people. 21Anyone who touches something unclean — whether the uncleanness be from a person, from an unclean animal or from some other unclean detestable thing — and then eats the meat from the sacrifice of peace offerings for Adonai, that person will be cut off from his people.’”
22Adonai said to Moshe, 23“Say to the people of Isra’el, ‘You are not to eat the fat of bulls, sheep or goats. 24The fat of animals that die of themselves or are killed by wild animals may be used for any other purpose, but under no circumstances are you to eat it. 25For whoever eats the fat of animals of the kind used in presenting an offering made by fire to Adonai will be cut off from his people. 26You are not to eat any kind of blood, whether from birds or animals, in any of your homes. 27Whoever eats any blood will be cut off from his people.’”
28Adonai said to Moshe, 29“Say to the people of Isra’el, ‘A person who offers his sacrifice of peace offerings to Adonai is to bring part of his sacrifice of peace offerings as his offering for Adonai. 30He is to bring with his own hands the offerings for Adonai made by fire — he is to bring the breast with its fat. The breast is to be waved as a wave offering before Adonai. 31The cohen is to make the fat go up in smoke on the altar, but the breast will belong to Aharon and his descendants. 32You are to give the right thigh from your sacrifices of peace offerings to the cohen as a contribution. 33The descendant of Aharon who offers the blood of the peace offerings is to have the right thigh as his share. 34For the breast that has been waved and the thigh that has been contributed I have taken from the people of Isra’el out of their sacrifices of peace offerings and given them to Aharon the cohen and to his descendants as their share forever from the people of Isra’el.’”
35On the day when Aharon and his sons were presented to serve Adonai in the office of cohen, this portion was set aside for him and his descendants from the offerings for Adonai made by fire. 36On the day they were anointed, Adonai ordered that this be given to them by the people of Isra’el. It is their share forever through all their generations.
37This is the law for the burnt offering, the grain offering, the sin offering, the guilt offering, the consecration offering and the sacrifice of peace offerings 38which Adonai ordered Moshe on Mount Sinai on the day he ordered the people of Isra’el to present their offerings to Adonai, in the Sinai Desert.
