Parashah 26: Sh’mini (Eighth) 9:1–11:47
1On the eighth day, Moshe called Aharon, his sons and the leaders of Isra’el, 2and said to Aharon, “Take a male calf for a sin offering and a ram for a burnt offering, both without defect, and offer them before Adonai. 3Then tell the people of Isra’el, ‘Take a male goat for a sin offering and a calf and a lamb, both a year old and without defect, for a burnt offering, 4and an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before Adonai; also a grain offering mixed with olive oil — because today Adonai is going to appear to you.’” 5They brought what Moshe had ordered before the tent of meeting, and the whole community approached and stood before Adonai.
6Moshe said, “This is what Adonai has ordered you to do, so that the glory of Adonai will appear to you.” 7Moshe told Aharon, “Approach the altar, offer your sin offering and burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself and the people. Then present the offering of the people and make atonement for them, as Adonai ordered.” 8So Aharon approached the altar and slaughtered the calf of the sin offering which was for himself. 9The sons of Aharon presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood and put it on the horns of the altar; then he poured out the blood at the base of the altar. 10But the fat, the kidneys and the covering of the liver of the sin offering he made go up in smoke on the altar, as Adonai had ordered Moshe. 11The meat and the skin were burned up completely outside the camp.
12Next he slaughtered the burnt offering; Aharon’s sons brought him the blood, and he splashed it against all sides of the altar. 13They brought him the burnt offering, piece by piece, and the head; and he made them go up in smoke on the altar. 14He washed the inner organs and the lower parts of the legs and made them go up in smoke on top of the burnt offering on the altar.
15Then the people’s offering was presented. He took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people, slaughtered it and offered it for sin, like the earlier sin offering. 16The burnt offering was presented, and he offered it in the prescribed manner. (ii) 17The grain offering was presented; he took a handful of it and made it go up in smoke on the altar, in addition to the morning’s burnt offering. 18He slaughtered the ox and the ram, the people’s sacrifice as peace offerings; Aharon’s sons brought him the blood, which he splashed against all sides of the altar, 19and the fat of the ox and of the ram — the fat tail, the fat which covers the inner organs, the kidneys and the covering of the liver. 20They put the fat on the breasts, and he made the fat go up in smoke on the altar. 21The breasts and right thigh Aharon waved as a wave offering before Adonai, as Moshe had ordered.
22Aharon raised his hands toward the people, blessed them and came down from offering the sin offering, the burnt offering and the peace offerings. 23Moshe and Aharon entered the tent of meeting, came out and blessed the people. Then the glory of Adonai appeared to all the people! (iii) 24Fire came forth from the presence of Adonai, consuming the burnt offering and the fat on the altar. When all the people saw it, they shouted and fell on their faces.
