1(vii) Adonai said to Moshe, 2“Order the people of Isra’el to bring you pure oil from crushed olives for the light, to keep lamps burning always. 3Outside the curtain of the testimony in the tent of meeting, Aharon is to arrange for the light to be kept burning always from evening until morning before Adonai ; this is to be a permanent regulation through all your generations. 4He is always to keep in order the lamps on the pure menorah before Adonai.
5“You are to take fine flour and use it to bake twelve loaves, one gallon per loaf. 6Arrange them in two rows, six in a row, on the pure table before Adonai. 7Put frankincense with each row to be an offering made by fire to Adonai in place of the bread and as a reminder of it. 8Regularly, every Shabbat, he is to arrange them before Adonai ; they are from the people of Isra’el, as a covenant forever. 9They will belong to Aharon and his sons; and they are to eat them in a holy place; because for him they are, of the offerings for Adonai made by fire, especially holy. This is a permanent law.”
10There was a man who was the son of a woman of Isra’el and an Egyptian father. He went out among the people of Isra’el, and this son of a woman of Isra’el had a fight in the camp with a man of Isra’el, 11in the course of which the son of the woman of Isra’el uttered the Name [Yud-Heh-Vav-Heh] in a curse. So they brought him to Moshe. (His mother’s name was Shlomit the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.) 12They put him under guard until Adonai would tell them what to do. 13Adonai said to Moshe, 14“Take the man who cursed outside the camp, have everyone who heard him lay their hands on his head, and have the entire community stone him. 15Then tell the people of Isra’el, ‘Whoever curses his God will bear the consequences of his sin; 16and whoever blasphemes the name of Adonai must be put to death; the entire community must stone him. The foreigner as well as the citizen is to be put to death if he blasphemes the Name.
17“‘Anyone who strikes another person and kills him must be put to death. 18Anyone who strikes an animal and kills it is to make restitution, life for life. 19If someone injures his neighbor, what he did is to be done to him — 20break for break, eye for eye, tooth for tooth — whatever injury he has caused the other person is to be rendered to him in return. (Maftir) 21He who kills an animal is to make restitution, but he who kills another person is to be put to death. 22You are to apply the same standard of judgment to the foreigner as to the citizen, because I am Adonai your God.”
23So Moshe spoke to the people of Isra’el, and they took the man who had cursed outside the camp and stoned him to death. Thus the people of Isra’el did as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
Haftarah Emor: Yechezk’el (Ezekiel) 44:15–31
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah Emor: Mattityahu (Matthew) 5:38–42; Galatians 3:26–29 [In connection with the feasts, see readings for Parashah 41]
Parashah 32: B’har (On Mount) 25:1–26:2
[In regular years read with Parashah 33, in leap years read separately]
