1Adonai said to Moshe, 2“This is to be the law concerning the person afflicted with tzara‘at on the day of his purification. He is to be brought to the cohen, 3and the cohen is to go outside the camp and examine him there. If he sees that the tzara‘at sores have been healed in the afflicted person, 4then the cohen will order that two living clean birds be taken for the one to be purified, along with cedar-wood, scarlet yarn and hyssop leaves. 5The cohen is to order one of the birds slaughtered in a clay pot over running water. 6As for the live bird, he is to take it with the cedar-wood, scarlet yarn and hyssop and dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird slaughtered over running water, 7and sprinkle the person to be purified from the tzara‘at seven times. Next he is to set the live bird free in an open field. 8He who is to be purified must wash his clothes, shave off all his hair and bathe himself in water. Then he will be clean; and after that, he may enter the camp; but he must live outside his tent for seven days. 9On the seventh day he is to shave all the hair off his head, also his beard and eyebrows — he must shave off all his hair; and he is to wash his clothes and bathe his body in water; and he will be clean.
10“On the eighth day he is to take two male lambs without defect, one female lamb in its first year without defect and six-and-a-half quarts of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with olive oil, and two-thirds of a pint of olive oil. 11The cohen purifying him is to place the person being purified with these items before Adonai at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 12The cohen is to take one of the male lambs and offer it as a guilt offering with the two-thirds-pint of olive oil, then wave them as a wave offering before Adonai. (LY: ii) 13He is to slaughter the male lamb at the place in the sanctuary for slaughtering sin offerings and burnt offerings, because the guilt offering belongs to the cohen, just like the sin offering; it is especially holy. 14The cohen is to take some of the blood of the guilt offering and put it on the tip of the right ear of the person being purified, on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. 15Next, the cohen is to take some of the two-thirds-pint of olive oil and pour it into the palm of his own left hand, 16dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand and sprinkle from the oil with his finger seven times before Adonai. 17Then the cohen is to put some of the remaining oil in his hand on the tip of the right ear of the person being purified, on the thumb of his right hand, on the big toe of his right foot and on the blood of the guilt offering. 18Finally, the cohen is to put the rest of the oil in his hand on the head of the person being purified; and the cohen will make atonement for him before Adonai. 19The cohen is to offer the sin offering and make atonement for the person being purified because of his uncleanness; afterwards, he is to slaughter the burnt offering. 20The cohen is to offer the burnt offering and the grain offering on the altar; thus the cohen will make atonement for him; and he will be clean.
(RY: v, LY: iii) 21“If he is poor, so that he can’t afford to do otherwise, he is to take one male lamb as a guilt offering to be waved, to make atonement for him; two quarts of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; two-thirds of a pint of olive oil; 22and two doves or two young pigeons, such as he can afford, the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. 23On the eighth day, he will bring them to the cohen for his purification, to the entrance of the tent of meeting before Adonai. 24The cohen is to take the lamb of the guilt offering and the two-thirds of a pint of olive oil and wave them as a wave offering before Adonai. 25He is to slaughter the lamb of the guilt offering; and the cohen is to take some of the blood of the guilt offering and put it on the tip of the right ear of the person being purified, on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. 26The cohen is to take some of the olive oil and pour it into the palm of his own left hand, 27and sprinkle with his right hand some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before Adonai. 28The cohen is to put some of the oil in his hand on the tip of the right ear of the person being purified, on the thumb of his right hand, on the big toe of his right foot — in the same place as the blood of the guilt offering. 29Finally, the cohen is to put the rest of the oil in his hand on the head of the person being purified, to make atonement for him before Adonai. 30He is to offer one of the doves or young pigeons, such as the person can afford, 31whatever his means suffice for — the one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering — with the grain offering; thus the cohen will make atonement before Adonai for the person being purified. 32Such is the law for the person who has tzara‘at sores if he cannot afford the usual elements used for his purification.”
(RY: vi, LY: iv) 33Adonai said to Moshe and Aharon, 34“When you have entered the land of Kena‘an which I am giving you as a possession, and I put an infection of tzara‘at in a house in the land that you possess, 35then the owner of the house is to come and tell the cohen, ‘It seems to me that there may be an infection in the house.’ 36The cohen is to order the house emptied before he goes in to inspect the infection, so that everything in the house won’t be made unclean; afterwards, the cohen is to enter and inspect the house. 37He will examine the infection; and if he sees that the infection is in the walls of the house, with greenish or reddish depressions that seem to go in deeper than the surface of the wall, 38he is to go out of the house to its door and seal up the house for seven days. 39The cohen will come again on the seventh day and examine the house; if he sees that the infection has spread over its walls, 40he is to order them to remove the infected stones and throw them into some unclean place outside the city. 41Next, he is to have the inside of the house thoroughly scraped, and the scraped-off plaster is to be discarded outside the city in an unclean place. 42Finally, other stones must be set in the place of the first stones and other plaster used to replaster the house. 43If the infection returns and breaks out in the house after the stones have been removed and the house scraped and plastered; 44then the cohen is to enter and examine it. If he sees that the infection has spread in the house, it is a contagious tzara‘at in the house; it is unclean. 45He must break down the house and take its stones, timber and plaster out of the city to an unclean place. 46Moreover, whoever enters the house at any time while it is sealed up will be unclean until evening. 47Whoever lies down or eats in the house must wash his clothes. 48If the cohen enters, examines and sees that the infection has not spread in the house since it was plastered; then he is to declare the house clean; because the infection is cured.
49“To purify the house, he is to take two birds, cedar-wood, scarlet yarn and hyssop leaves. 50He is to slaughter one of the birds in a clay pot over running water. 51He is to take the cedar-wood, the hyssop, the scarlet yarn and the live bird and dip them in the blood of the slaughtered bird and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times. 52He will purify the house with the blood of the bird, the running water, the live bird, the cedar-wood, the hyssop and the scarlet yarn. 53But he is to set the live bird free outside the city in an open field; thus will he make atonement for the house; and it will be clean.
(LY: v) 54“Such is the law for all kinds of tzara‘at sores, for a crusted area, 55for tzara‘at in a garment, for a house, 56for a swelling, for a scab and for a bright spot, 57to determine when it is clean and when it is unclean. This is the law concerning tzara‘at.”
