1(iv) “At that time Adonai said to me, ‘Cut yourself two stone tablets like the first ones, come up to me on the mountain, and make yourself an ark of wood. 2I will inscribe on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke; and you are to put them in the ark.’ 3So I made an ark of acacia-wood and cut two stone tablets like the first, then climbed the mountain with the two tablets in my hand. 4He inscribed the tablets with the same inscription as before, the Ten Words which Adonai proclaimed to you from the fire on the mountain the day of the assembly; and Adonai gave them to me. 5I turned, came down the mountain and put the tablets in the ark I had made; and there they remain; as Adonai ordered me.
6“The people of Isra’el traveled from the wells of B’nei-Ya‘akan to Moserah, where Aharon died and was buried; and El‘azar his son took his place, serving in the office of cohen. 7From there they traveled to Gudgod, and from Gudgod to Yotvatah, a region with running streams. 8At that time Adonai set apart the tribe of Levi to carry the ark for the covenant of Adonai and to stand before Adonai to serve him and to bless in his name, as they still do today. 9This is why Levi has no share or inheritance with his brothers; Adonai is his inheritance, as Adonai your God had said to him.
10“I stayed on the mountain forty days and nights, as previously; and Adonai listened to me that time too — Adonai would not destroy you. 11Then Adonai said to me, ‘Get up, and go on your way at the head of the people, so that they can enter and take possession of the land I swore to their ancestors that I would give them.’
(v) 12“So now, Isra’el, all that Adonai your God asks from you is to fear Adonai your God, follow all his ways, love him and serve Adonai your God with all your heart and all your being; 13to obey, for your own good, the mitzvot and regulations of Adonai which I am giving you today. 14See, the sky, the heaven beyond the sky, the earth and everything on it all belong to Adonai your God. 15Only Adonai took enough pleasure in your ancestors to love them and choose their descendants after them — yourselves — above all peoples, as he still does today. 16Therefore, circumcise the foreskin of your heart; and don’t be stiffnecked any longer! 17For Adonai your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great, mighty and awesome God, who has no favorites and accepts no bribes. 18He secures justice for the orphan and the widow; he loves the foreigner, giving him food and clothing. 19Therefore you are to love the foreigner, since you were foreigners in the land of Egypt. 20You are to fear Adonai your God, serve him, cling to him and swear by his name. 21He is your praise, and he is your God, who has done for you these great and awesome things, which you have seen with your own eyes. 22Your ancestors went down into Egypt with only seventy people, but now Adonai your God has made your numbers as many as the stars in the sky!
