1“All the mitzvot I am giving you today you are to take care to obey, so that you will live, increase your numbers, enter and take possession of the land Adonai swore about to your ancestors. 2You are to remember everything of the way in which Adonai led you these forty years in the desert, humbling and testing you in order to know what was in your heart — whether you would obey his mitzvot or not. 3He humbled you, allowing you to become hungry, and then fed you with man, which neither you nor your ancestors had ever known, to make you understand that a person does not live on food alone but on everything that comes from the mouth of Adonai. 4During these forty years the clothing you were wearing didn’t grow old, and your feet didn’t swell up. 5Think deeply about it: Adonai was disciplining you, just as a man disciplines his child. 6So obey the mitzvot of Adonai your God, living as he directs and fearing him. 7For Adonai your God is bringing you into a good land, a land with streams, springs and water welling up from the depths in valleys and on hillsides. 8It is a land of wheat and barley, grapevines, fig trees and pomegranates; a land of olive oil and honey; 9a land where you will eat food in abundance and lack nothing in it; a land where the stones contain iron and the hills can be mined for copper. 10So you will eat and be satisfied, and you will bless Adonai your God for the good land he has given you.
(ii) 11“Be careful not to forget Adonai your God by not obeying his mitzvot, rulings and regulations that I am giving you today. 12Otherwise, after you have eaten and are satisfied, built fine houses and lived in them, 13and increased your herds, flocks, silver, gold and everything else you own, 14you will become proud-hearted. Forgetting Adonai your God — who brought you out of the land of Egypt, where you lived as slaves; 15who led you through the vast and fearsome desert, with its poisonous snakes, scorpions and waterless, thirsty ground; who brought water out of flint rock for you; 16who fed you in the desert with man, unknown to your ancestors; all the while humbling and testing you in order to do you good in the end — 17you will think to yourself, ‘My own power and the strength of my own hand have gotten me this wealth.’ 18No, you are to remember Adonai your God, because it is he who is giving you the power to get wealth, in order to confirm his covenant, which he swore to your ancestors, as is happening even today. 19If you forget Adonai your God, follow other gods and serve and worship them, I am warning you in advance today that you will certainly perish. 20You will perish just like the nations that Adonai is causing to perish ahead of you, because you will not have heeded the voice of Adonai your God.”
