1“Observe the month of Aviv, and keep Pesach to Adonai your God; for in the month of Aviv, Adonai your God brought you out of Egypt at night. 2You are to sacrifice the Pesach offering from flock and herd to Adonai your God in the place where Adonai will choose to have his name live. 3You are not to eat any hametz with it; for seven days you are to eat with it matzah, the bread of affliction; for you came out of the land of Egypt in haste. Thus you will remember the day you left the land of Egypt as long as you live. 4No leaven is to be seen with you anywhere in your territory for seven days. None of the meat from your sacrifice on the first day in the evening is to remain all night until morning. 5You may not sacrifice the Pesach offering in just any of the towns that Adonai your God is giving you; 6but at the place where Adonai your God will choose to have his name live — there is where you are to sacrifice the Pesach offering, in the evening, when the sun sets, at the time of year that you came out of Egypt. 7You are to roast it and eat it in the place Adonai your God will choose; in the morning you will return and go to your tents. 8For six days you are to eat matzah; on the seventh day there is to be a festive assembly for Adonai your God; do not do any kind of work.
9“You are to count seven weeks; you are to begin counting seven weeks from the time you first put your sickle to the standing grain. 10You are to observe the festival of Shavu‘ot [weeks] for Adonai your God with a voluntary offering, which you are to give in accordance with the degree to which Adonai your God has prospered you. 11You are to rejoice in the presence of Adonai your God — you, your sons and daughters, your male and female slaves, the L’vi’im living in your towns, and the foreigners, orphans and widows living among you — in the place where Adonai your God will choose to have his name live. 12Remember that you were a slave in Egypt; then you will keep and obey these laws.
(Maftir) 13“You are to keep the festival of Sukkot for seven days after you have gathered the produce of your threshing-floor and winepress. 14Rejoice at your festival — you, your sons and daughters, your male and female slaves, the L’vi’im, and the foreigners, orphans and widows living among you. 15Seven days you are to keep the festival for Adonai your God in the place Adonai your God will choose, because Adonai your God will bless you in all your crops and in all your work, so you are to be full of joy!
16“Three times a year all your men are to appear in the presence of Adonai your God in the place which he will choose — at the festival of matzah, at the festival of Shavu‘ot and at the festival of Sukkot. They are not to show up before Adonai empty-handed, 17but every man is to give what he can, in accordance with the blessing Adonai your God has given you.
Haftarah Re’eh: Yesha‘yahu (Isaiah) 54:11–55:5
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah Re’eh: 1 Corinthians 5:9–13; 1 Yochanan (1 John) 4:1–6
Parashah 48: Shof’tim (Judges) 16:18–21:9
18“You are to appoint judges and officers for all your gates [in the cities] Adonai your God is giving you, tribe by tribe; and they are to judge the people with righteous judgment. 19You are not to distort justice or show favoritism, and you are not to accept a bribe, for a gift blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of even the upright. 20Justice, only justice, you must pursue; so that you will live and inherit the land Adonai your God is giving you.
21“You are not to plant any sort of tree as a sacred pole beside the altar of Adonai your God that you will make for yourselves. 22Likewise, do not set up a standing-stone; Adonai your God hates such things.
