1(iv) Then Moshe and all the leaders of Isra’el gave orders to the people. They said, “Observe all the mitzvot I am giving you today. 2When you cross the Yarden to the land Adonai your God is giving you, you are to set up large stones, put plaster on them, 3and, after crossing over, write this Torah on them, every word — so that you can enter the land Adonai your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as Adonai, the God of your ancestors, promised you. 4When you have crossed the Yarden, you are to set up these stones, as I am ordering you today, on Mount ‘Eival; and put plaster on them. 5There you are to erect an altar to Adonai your God, an altar made of stones. You are not to use any iron tool on them, 6but are to build the altar of Adonai your God of uncut stones; and you are to offer burnt offerings on it to Adonai your God. 7Also you are to sacrifice peace offerings, eat there and be joyful in the presence of Adonai your God. 8You are to write on the stones all the words of this Torah very clearly.”
9Next Moshe and the cohanim, who are L’vi’im, spoke to all Isra’el. They said, “Be quiet; and listen, Isra’el! Today you have become the people of Adonai your God. 10Therefore you are to listen to what Adonai your God says and obey his mitzvot and laws, which I am giving you today.”
(v) 11That same day Moshe commissioned the people as follows: 12“These are the ones who are to stand on Mount G’rizim and bless the people after you have crossed the Yarden: Shim‘on, Levi, Y’hudah, Yissakhar, Yosef and Binyamin; 13while these are to stand on Mount ‘Eival for the curse: Re’uven, Gad, Asher, Z’vulun, Dan and Naftali. 14The L’vi’im, speaking loudly, will proclaim to every man of Isra’el:
15“‘A curse on anyone who makes a carved or metal image, something Adonai detests, the handiwork of a craftsman, and sets it up in secret!’ All the people are to respond by saying, ‘Amen!’
16“‘A curse on anyone who dishonors his father or mother.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
17“‘A curse on anyone who moves his neighbor’s boundary marker.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
18“‘A curse on anyone who causes a blind person to lose his way on the road.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
19“‘A curse on anyone who interferes with justice for the foreigner, orphan or widow.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
20“‘A curse on anyone who has sexual relations with his father’s wife, because he has violated his father’s rights.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
21“‘A curse on anyone who has sexual relations with any kind of animal.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
22“‘A curse on anyone who has sexual relations with his sister, no matter whether she is the daughter of his father or of his mother.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
23“‘A curse on anyone who has sexual relations with his mother-in-law.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
24“‘A curse on anyone who secretly attacks a fellow member of the community.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
25“‘A curse on anyone who accepts a bribe to kill an innocent person.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
26“‘A curse on anyone who does not confirm the words of this Torah by putting them into practice.’ All the people are to say, ‘Amen!’
