1(iii) The cohanim, who are L’vi’im, and indeed the whole tribe of Levi, is not to have a share or an inheritance with Isra’el. Instead, their support will come from the food offered by fire to Adonai and from whatever else becomes his. 2They will have no inheritance with their brothers, because Adonai is their inheritance — as he has said to them.
3“The cohanim will have the right to receive from the people, from those offering a sacrifice, whether ox or sheep, the shoulder, the jowls and the stomach. 4You will also give him the firstfruits of your grain, new wine and olive oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep. 5For Adonai your God has chosen him from all your tribes to stand and serve in the name of Adonai, him and his sons forever.
(iv) 6“If a Levi from one of your towns anywhere in Isra’el where he is living comes, highly motivated, to the place which Adonai will choose, 7then he will serve there in the name of Adonai his God, just like his kinsmen the L’vi’im who stand and serve in the presence of Adonai. 8Such a Levi will receive the same share as they do, in addition to what he may receive from selling his inherited ancestral property.
9“When you enter the land Adonai your God is giving you, you are not to learn how to follow the abominable practices of those nations. 10There must not be found among you anyone who makes his son or daughter pass through fire, a diviner, a soothsayer, an enchanter, a sorcerer, 11a spell-caster, a consulter of ghosts or spirits, or a necromancer. 12For whoever does these things is detestable to Adonai, and because of these abominations Adonai your God is driving them out ahead of you. 13You must be wholehearted with Adonai your God. (v) 14For these nations, which you are about to dispossess, listen to soothsayers and diviners; but you, Adonai your God does not allow you to do this.
15“Adonai will raise up for you a prophet like me from among yourselves, from your own kinsmen. You are to pay attention to him, 16just as when you were assembled at Horev and requested Adonai your God, ‘Don’t let me hear the voice of Adonai my God any more, or let me see this great fire ever again; if I do, I will die!’ 17On that occasion Adonai said to me, ‘They are right in what they are saying. 18I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their kinsmen. I will put my words in his mouth, and he will tell them everything I order him. 19Whoever doesn’t listen to my words, which he will speak in my name, will have to account for himself to me.
20“‘But if a prophet presumptuously speaks a word in my name which I didn’t order him to say, or if he speaks in the name of other gods, then that prophet must die.’ 21You may be wondering, ‘How are we to know if a word has not been spoken by Adonai?’ 22When a prophet speaks in the name of Adonai, and the prediction does not come true — that is, the word is not fulfilled — then Adonai did not speak that word. The prophet who said it spoke presumptuously; you have nothing to fear from him.
