1Adonai said to Moshe, 2“Tell the people of Isra’el, ‘When either a man or a woman makes a special kind of vow, the vow of a nazir, consecrating himself to Adonai; 3he is to abstain from wine and other intoxicating liquor, he is not to drink vinegar from either source, he is not to drink grape juice, and he is not to eat grapes or raisins. 4As long as he remains a nazir he is to eat nothing derived from the grapevine, not even the grape-skins or the seeds.
5“‘Throughout the period of his vow as a nazir, he is not to shave his head. Until the end of the time for which he has consecrated himself to Adonai he is to be holy: he is to let the hair on his head grow long.
6“‘Throughout the period for which he has consecrated himself to Adonai, he is not to approach a corpse. 7He is not to make himself unclean for his father, mother, brother or sister when they die, since his consecration to God is on his head. 8Throughout the time of his being a nazir he is holy for Adonai.
9“‘If someone next to him dies very suddenly, so that he defiles his consecrated head, then he is to shave his head on the day of his purification; he is to shave it on the seventh day. 10On the eighth day he is to bring two doves or two young pigeons to the cohen at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 11The cohen is to prepare one as a sin offering and the other as a burnt offering and thus make atonement for him, inasmuch as he sinned because of the dead person. That same day he is to re-consecrate his head; 12he is to consecrate to Adonai the full period of his being a nazir by bringing a male lamb in its first year as a guilt offering. The previous days will not be counted, because his consecration became defiled.
13“‘This is the law for the nazir when his period of consecration is over: he is to be brought to the entrance of the tent of meeting, 14where he will present his offering to Adonai — one male lamb in its first year without defect as a burnt offering, one female lamb in its first year without defect as a sin offering, one ram without defect as peace offerings, 15a basket of matzah, loaves made of fine flour mixed with olive oil, unleavened wafers spread with olive oil, their grain offering and their drink offerings. 16The cohen is to bring them before Adonai, offer his sin offering, his burnt offering, 17and his ram as a sacrifice of peace offerings to Adonai, with the basket of matzah. The cohen will also offer the grain offering and drink offering that go with the peace offering. 18The nazir will shave his consecrated head at the entrance to the tent of meeting, take the hair removed from his consecrated head and put it on the fire under the sacrifice of peace offerings. 19When the ram has been boiled, the cohen is to take its shoulder, one loaf of matzah from the basket and one unleavened wafer, and place them in the hands of the nazir, after he has shaved his consecrated head. 20The cohen is to wave them as a wave offering before Adonai; this is set aside for the cohen, along with the breast for waving and the raised-up thigh. Following that, the nazir may drink wine.
21“‘This is the law for the nazir who makes a vow and for his offering to Adonai for his being a nazir — in addition to anything more for which he has sufficient means. In keeping with whatever vow he makes, he must do it according to the law for the nazir.’”
22Adonai said to Moshe, 23“Speak to Aharon and his sons, and tell them that this is how you are to bless the people of Isra’el: you are to say to them,
24‘Y’varekh’kha Adonai v’yishmerekha.
[May Adonai bless you and keep you.]
25Ya’er Adonai panav eleikha vichunekka.
[May Adonai make his face shine on you and show you his favor.]
26Yissa Adonai panav eleikha v’yasem l’kha shalom.
[May Adonai lift up his face toward you and give you peace.]’
27“In this way they are to put my name on the people of Isra’el, so that I will bless them.”
