1“‘In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you are to have a holy convocation; do not do any kind of ordinary work; it is a day of blowing the shofar for you. 2Prepare a burnt offering to make a fragrant aroma for Adonai — one young bull, one ram and seven male lambs in their first year and without defect — 3with their grain offering, consisting of fine flour mixed with olive oil — six quarts for the bull, four quarts for the ram, 4and two quarts for each of the seven lambs — 5also one male goat as a sin offering to make atonement for you. 6This is to be in addition to the burnt offering for Rosh-Hodesh with its grain offering, the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings, according to the rule for them; this will be a fragrant aroma, an offering made by fire to Adonai.
7“‘On the tenth day of this seventh month you are to have a holy convocation. You are to deny yourselves, and you are not to do any kind of work; 8but you are to present a burnt offering to Adonai to make a fragrant aroma: one young bull, one ram, and seven male lambs in their first year (they are to be without defect for you), 9with their grain offering, fine flour mixed with olive oil, six quarts for the bull, four quarts for the one ram, 10and two quarts for each of the seven lambs; 11also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the sin offering for atonement and the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings.
(vii) 12“‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you are to have a holy convocation. You are not to do any kind of ordinary work, and you are to observe a feast to Adonai seven days. 13You are to present a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, bringing a fragrant aroma to Adonai. It is to consist of thirteen young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year (they are to be without defect), 14with their grain offering — fine flour mixed with olive oil, six quarts for each of the thirteen bulls, four quarts for each of the two rams, 15and two quarts for each of the fourteen lambs; 16also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain and drink offerings.
17“‘On the second day you are to present twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year, without defect; 18with the grain and drink offerings for the bulls, rams and lambs, according to their number, in keeping with the rule; 19also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering, its grain offering and their drink offerings.
20“‘On the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year, without defect; 21with the grain and drink offerings for the bulls, rams and lambs, according to their number, in keeping with the rule; 22also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain and drink offerings.
23“‘On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year, without defect; 24with the grain and drink offerings for the bulls, rams and lambs, according to their number, in keeping with the rule; 25also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain and drink offerings.
26“‘On the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year, without defect; 27with the grain and drink offerings for the bulls, rams and lambs, according to their number, in keeping with the rule; 28also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain and drink offerings.
29“‘On the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year, without defect; 30with the grain and drink offerings for the bulls, rams and lambs, according to their number, in keeping with the rule; 31also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain and drink offerings.
32“‘On the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs in their first year, without defect; 33with the grain and drink offerings for the bulls, rams and lambs, according to their number, in keeping with the rule; 34also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offerings.
(Maftir) 35“‘On the eighth day you are to have a festive assembly: you are not to do any kind of ordinary work; 36but you are to present a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, giving a fragrant aroma to Adonai — one bull, one ram, seven male lambs in their first year, without defect; 37with the grain and drink offerings for the bull, the ram and the lambs, according to their number, in keeping with the rule; 38also one male goat as a sin offering; in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain and drink offerings.
39“‘You are to offer these to Adonai at your designated times in addition to your vows and voluntary offerings — whether these are your burnt offerings, grain offerings, drink offerings or peace offerings.’”
