1Adonai told Moshe 2to give this order to the people of Isra’el: “When you enter the land of Kena‘an, it will become your land to pass on as an inheritance, the land of Kena‘an as defined by these borders.
3“Your southern portion will extend from the Tzin Desert close to the border of Edom. The eastern terminus of your southern border is at the end of the Dead Sea. 4From there your border turns, goes south of the ‘Akrabbim Ascent and passes on to Tzin. From there it goes south of Kadesh-Barnea, on to Hatzar-Adar, and on to ‘Atzmon. 5Then the border turns and goes from ‘Atzmon to the Vadi of Egypt and along it to the Sea.
6“Your western border will be the Great Sea.
7“Your northern border will be as follows: from the Great Sea mark a line to Mount Hor, 8and from Mount Hor mark a line to the entrance of Hamat. The border goes out to Tz’dad. 9Then the border goes to Zifron and finally to Hatzar-‘Einan; this is your northern border.
10“For the eastern border mark your line from Hatzar-‘Enan to Sh’fam. 11Then the border goes down from Sh’fam to Rivlah, on the east side of ‘Ayin, then down until it hits the slope east of Lake Kinneret. 12From there it goes down the Yarden River till it flows into the Dead Sea. These will be the borders of your land.”
13Moshe gave this order to the people of Isra’el: “This is the land in which you will receive inheritances by lot, which Adonai has ordered to give to the nine tribes and the half-tribe. 14The tribe of the descendants of Re’uven have already received their land for inheritance according to their clans, and so have the descendants of Gad and the half-tribe of M’nasheh. 15These two-and-a-half tribes have received their inheritance on this side of the Yarden, across from Yericho and eastward, toward the sunrise.”
(RY: vi; LY: iv) 16Adonai said to Moshe, 17“These are the names of the men who will take possession of the land for you: El‘azar the cohen and Y’hoshua the son of Nun. 18Also appoint one leader from each tribe to take possession of the land. 19The names of these men are:
from the tribe of Y’hudah, Kalev the son of Y’funeh;
20from the tribe of the descendants of Shim‘on, Sh’mu’el the son of ‘Ammihud;
21from the tribe of Binyamin, Elidad the son of Kislon;
22from the tribe of the descendants of Dan, a leader, Buki the son of Yogli;
23from the descendants of Yosef:
from the tribe of the descendants of M’nasheh, a leader, Hani’el the son of Efod;
24from the tribe of the descendants of Efrayim, a leader, K’mu’el the son of Shiftan;
25from the tribe of the descendants of Z’vulun, a leader, Elitzafan the son of Parnakh;
26from the tribe of the descendants of Yissakhar, a leader, Palti’el the son of ‘Azan;
27from the tribe of the descendants of Asher, a leader, Achihud the son of Shlomi;
28from the tribe of the descendants of Naftali, a leader, P’dah’el the son of ‘Ammihud.”
29These are the ones whom Adonai ordered to divide the inheritance among the people of Isra’el in the land of Kena‘an.
