1(iv) These are the descendants of Aharon and Moshe as of the day when Adonai spoke with Moshe on Mount Sinai. 2The names of the sons of Aharon are: Nadav the firstborn, Avihu, El‘azar and Itamar. 3These were the names of the sons of Aharon the cohen, whom he anointed and ordained as cohanim. 4But Nadav and Avihu died in the presence of Adonai when they offered unauthorized fire before Adonai in the Sinai Desert, and they had no children; El‘azar and Itamar served as cohanim in the presence of Aharon their father.
5Adonai said to Moshe, 6“Summon the tribe of Levi, and assign them to Aharon the cohen, so that they can help him. 7They are to carry out his duties and the duties of the whole community before the tent of meeting in performing the service of the tabernacle. 8They are to be in charge of all the furnishings of the tent of meeting and to carry out all the duties of the people of Isra’el connected with the service of the tabernacle. 9Assign the L’vi’im to Aharon and his sons; their one responsibility in regard to the people of Isra’el is to serve him. 10You are to appoint Aharon and his sons to carry out the duties of cohanim; anyone else who involves himself is to be put to death.”
11Adonai said to Moshe, 12“I have taken the L’vi’im from among the people of Isra’el in lieu of every firstborn male that is first from the womb among the people of Isra’el; the L’vi’im are to be mine. 13All the firstborn males belong to me, because on the day that I killed all the firstborn males in the land of Egypt, I separated for myself all the firstborn males in Isra’el, both human and animal. They are mine; I am Adonai.”
(v) 14Adonai said to Moshe in the Sinai Desert, 15“Take a census of the tribe of Levi by clans and families. Count every male a month old or over.” 16Moshe counted them in the manner Adonai had said, as he had been ordered. 17The names of the sons of Levi were Gershon, K’hat and M’rari. 18The names of the sons of Gershon were Livni and Shim‘i; they fathered their respective clans; 19likewise the sons of K’hat — ‘Amram,Yitz’har, Hevron and ‘Uzi’el — 20and the sons of M’rari — Machli and Mushi. These fathered the clans of the L’vi’im.
21Gershon fathered the clans of Livni and Shim‘i; these were the Gershon clans. 22Of them, 7,500 males a month old and over were counted. 23The Gershon clans were to camp behind the tabernacle, toward the west. 24The chief of the Gershon clan was Elyasaf, the son of La’el. 25In connection with the tent of meeting, the descendants of Gershon were to be in charge of the following: the tabernacle itself, its inner and outer coverings, the screen for the entrance of the tent of meeting, 26the curtains surrounding the courtyard, the screen for the entrance of the courtyard surrounding the tabernacle and the altar, all the fixtures and ropes for these items, and their maintenance.
27K’hat fathered the clans of ‘Amram, Yitz’har, Hevron and ‘Uzi’el; these were the K’hat clans. 28Of them, 8,600 males a month old and over were counted; they were in charge of the Holy Place. 29The K’hat clans were to camp next to the tabernacle, toward the south. 30The chief of the K’hat clan was Elitzafan the son of ‘Uzi’el. 31They were responsible for the ark, the table, the menorah, the altars, the utensils the cohanim use when they serve in the Holy Place, the curtain, and everything involved with the maintenance of these things. 32El‘azar the son of Aharon the cohen was first among the chiefs of the L’vi’im and supervised those in charge of the Holy Place.
33M’rari fathered the clans of Machli and Mushi; these were the M’rari clans. 34Of them, 6,200 males a month old and over were counted. 35The chief of the M’rari clan was Tzuri’el the son of Avichayil. They were to camp next to the tabernacle, toward the north. 36The M’rari clans were assigned responsibility for the frames of the tabernacle, along with its crossbars, posts, sockets and fittings, together with their maintenance; 37also the posts of the surrounding courtyard, with their sockets, pegs and ropes.
38Those who were to camp in front of the tabernacle on the east, in front of the tent of meeting toward the sunrise, were Moshe, Aharon and his sons who were in charge of the Holy Place. They carried out their responsibility on behalf of the people of Isra’el, and anyone else who involved himself was to be put to death.
39The total number of L’vi’im whom Moshe and Aharon counted by their clans, all the males a month old and over, was 22,000.
(vi) 40Adonai said to Moshe, “Register all the firstborn males of the people of Isra’el a month old and over, and determine how many there are. 41Then you are to take the L’vi’im for me, Adonai, in place of all the firstborn among the people of Isra’el, and the cattle of the L’vi’im in place of the firstborn of the cattle belonging to the people of Isra’el.” 42Moshe counted, as Adonai had ordered him, all the firstborn among the people of Isra’el. 43The total number of firstborn males registered, a month old and over, of those who were counted, was 22,273.
44Adonai said to Moshe, 45“Take the L’vi’im in place of all the firstborn among the people of Isra’el, and the cattle of the L’vi’im in place of their cattle; the L’vi’im are to belong to me, Adonai. 46Since there were 273 more firstborn males from Isra’el than male L’vi’im, in order to redeem them, 47you are to take five shekels [two ounces] for each of these (use the sanctuary shekel, which is equal to twenty gerahs). 48Give the redemption money for these extra people to Aharon and his sons.” 49Moshe took the redemption money from those who were over and above those redeemed by the L’vi’im; 50the amount of money he took from the firstborn of the people of Isra’el was 1,365 shekels, using the sanctuary shekel. 51Moshe gave the redemption-money to Aharon and his sons, in keeping with what Adonai had said, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
