1Adonai said to Moshe and El‘azar, the son of Aharon the cohen, 2“Take a census of the entire assembly of the people of Isra’el twenty years old and over, by their ancestral clans, all who are subject to military service in Isra’el.” 3Moshe and El‘azar the cohen spoke with them on the plains of Mo’av by the Yarden across from Yericho, explaining, 4“Those twenty years old and over who came out of the land of Egypt, as Adonai ordered Moshe and the people of Isra’el.”
(ii) 5[The census results begin with] Re’uven, the firstborn of Isra’el. The descendants of Re’uven were: of Hanokh, the family of the Hanokhi; of Pallu, the family of the Pallu’i; 6of Hetzron, the family of the Hetzroni; and of Karmi the family of the Karmi. 7These were the the families of the Re’uveni; of them were counted 43,730.
8The sons of Pallu: Eli’av; 9and the sons of Eli’av: N’mu’el, Datan and Aviram. These are the same Datan and Aviram, men of reputation in the community, who rebelled against Moshe and Aharon in Korach’s group, when they rebelled against Adonai; 10and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up together with Korach when that group died, and the fire consumed 250 men, and they became a warning sign. 11(However, the sons of Korach did not die.)
12The descendants of Shim‘on, by their families, were: of N’mu’el, the family of the N’mu’eli; of Yamin, the family of the Yamini; of Yakhin, the family of the Yakhini; 13of Zerach, the family of the Zarchi; and of Sha’ul, the family of the Sha’uli. 14These were the families of the Shim‘oni, 22,200.
15The descendants of Gad, by their families, were: of Tz’fon, the family of the Tz’foni; of Haggi, the family of the Haggi; of Shuni, the family of the Shuni; 16of Ozni, the family of the Ozni; of ‘Eri, the family of the ‘Eri; 17of Arod, the family of the Arodi; and of Ar’eli, the family of the Ar’eli. 18These were the families of the sons of Gad, according to those counted of them, 40,500.
19The sons of Y’hudah: First ‘Er and Onan, but ‘Er and Onan died in the land of Kena‘an. 20The sons of Y’hudah who had descendants were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelani; of Peretz, the family of the Partzi; and of Zerach, the family of the Zarchi. 21The sons of Peretz were: of Hetzron, the family of the Hetzroni; and of Hamul, the family of the Hamuli. 22These were the families of Y’hudah, according to those counted of them, 76,500.
23The descendants of Yissakhar, by their families, were: of Tola, the family of the Tola‘i; of Puvah, the family of the Puni; 24of Yashuv, the family of the Yashuvi; and of Shimron, the family of the Shimroni. 25These were the families of Yissakhar, according to those counted of them, 64,300.
26The descendants of Z’vulun, by their families, were: of Sered, the family of the Sardi; of Elon, the family of the Eloni; and of Yachle’el, the family of the Yachle’eli. 27These were the families of the Z’vuloni, according to those counted of them, 60,500.
28The sons of Yosef, by their families, were M’nasheh and Efrayim. 29The descendants of M’nasheh were: of Makhir, the family of the Makhiri. Makhir was the father of Gil‘ad; of Gil‘ad, the family of the Gil‘adi. 30These are the descendants of Gil‘ad: of I‘ezer, the family of the I‘ezri; of Helek, the family of the Helki; 31of Asri’el, the family of the Asri’eli; of Sh’khem, the family of the Shikhmi; 32of Sh’mida, the family of the Sh’mida‘i; and of Hefer, the family of the Hefri. 33Tz’lof’chad the son of Hefer had no sons but daughters; the names of the daughters of Tz’lof’chad were Machlah, No‘ah, Hoglah, Milkah and Tirtzah. 34These were the families of M’nasheh; of them were counted 52,700.
35These are the descendants of Efrayim, by their families: of Shutelach, the family of the Shutalchi; of Bekher, the family of the Bakhri; and of Tachan, the family of the Tachani. 36These are the descendants of Shutelach: of ‘Eran, the family of the ‘Erani. 37These were the families of the descendants of Efrayim, according to those of them that were counted, 32,500. These were the descendants of Yosef, by their families.
38The descendants of Binyamin, by their families were: of Bela, the family of the Bal‘i; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbeli; of Achiram, the family of the Achirami; 39of Sh’fufam, the family of the Shufami; and of Hufam, the family of the Hufami. 40The sons of Bela were Ard and Na‘aman; [of Ard,] the family of the Ardi; and of Na‘aman, the family of the Na‘ami. 41These were the descendants of Binyamin, by their families; of them were counted 45,600.
42The descendants of Dan, by their families, were: of Shucham, the family of the Shuchami. These are the families of Dan, by their families. 43All the families of the Shuchami, according to those of them that were counted, were 64,400.
44The descendants of Asher, by their families: of Yimnah, the family of the Yimnah; of Yishvi, the family of the Yishvi; and of B’ri‘ah, the family of the B’ri‘i. 45Of the descendants of B’ri‘ah: of Hever, the family of the Hevri; and of Malki’el, the family of the Malki’eli. 46The name of Asher’s daughter was Serach. 47These were the families of the descendants of Asher, according to those of them that were counted, 53,400.
48The descendants of Naftali, by their families: of Yachtze’el, the families of the Yachtze’eli; of Guni, the family of the Guni; 49of Yetzer, the family of the Yitzri; and of Shillem, the family of the Shillemi. 50These are the families of Naftali according to their families; those of them that were counted were 45,400.
51Thus those who were counted of the people of Isra’el numbered 601,730.
(iii) 52Adonai said to Moshe, 53“The land is to be parceled out among these as a possession to be inherited, according to the number of names. 54To those families with more persons you are to give a greater inheritance, and to those with fewer you are to give a smaller inheritance — each family’s inheritance is to be given according to the number counted in it. 55However, the land is to be awarded by lot. They will inherit according to the names of the tribes of their ancestors, 56but the inheritance is to be parceled out by lot between the families with more and those with fewer.”
57Those counted among the Levi, by their families, were: of Gershon, the family of the Gershuni, of K’hat, the family of the K’hati; and of M’rari, the family of the M’rari. 58These are the families of Levi: the family of the Livni, the family of the Hevroni, the family of the Machli, the family of the Mushi and the family of the Korchi. K’hat was the father of ‘Amram. 59The name of ‘Amram’s wife was Yokheved the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt; and she bore to ‘Amram Aharon, Moshe and their sister Miryam. 60To Aharon were born Nadav, Avihu, El‘azar and Itamar; 61but Nadav and Avihu died when they offered unauthorized fire before Adonai. 62Those males one month old or more counted of the Levi were 23,000. These were not included in the census of the people of Isra’el, because no land for inheritance was given to them among the people of Isra’el.
63These are the ones counted by Moshe and El‘azar the cohen, who took a census of the people of Isra’el in the plains of Mo’av by the Yarden across from Yericho. 64But there was not a man among them who had also been included in the census of Moshe and Aharon the cohen when they enumerated the people of Isra’el in the Sinai Desert; 65because Adonai had said of them, “They will surely die in the desert.” So there was not left even one of them, except Kalev the son of Y’funeh and Y’hoshua the son of Nun.
