1These are the stages in the journey of the people of Isra’el as they left the land of Egypt divided into groups under the leadership of Moshe and Aharon. 2Moshe recorded each of the stages of their journey by order of Adonai ; here are the starting-points of each stage:
3They began their journey from Ram’ses in the first month. On the fifteenth day of the first month, the morning after the Pesach, the people of Isra’el left proudly in view of all the Egyptians; 4while the Egyptians were burying those among them whom Adonai had killed, all their firstborn; Adonai had also executed judgment on their gods. 5The people of Isra’el moved on from Ram’ses and camped at Sukkot.
6They moved on from Sukkot and camped at Etam, by the edge of the desert. 7They moved on from Etam and turned back to Pi-Hachirot, in front of Ba‘al-Tz’fon, and camped before Migdol. 8They moved on from P’nei-Hachirot, passed through the sea to the desert, continued three days’ journey into the Etam Desert and camped at Marah. 9They moved on from Marah and came to Eilim; in Eilim were twelve springs and seventy palm trees, so they camped there. 10They moved on from Eilim and camped by the Sea of Suf.
(LY: ii) 11They moved on from the Sea of Suf and camped in the Seen Desert. 12They moved on from the Seen Desert and camped at Dofkah. 13They moved on from Dofkah and camped at Alush. 14They moved on from Alush and camped at Refidim, where there was no water for the people to drink. 15They moved on from Refidim and camped in the Sinai Desert. 16They moved on from the Sinai Desert and camped at Kivrot-HaTa’avah. 17They moved on from Kivrot-HaTa’avah and camped in Hatzerot. 18They moved on from Hatzerot and camped at Ritmah. 19They moved on from Ritmah and camped at Rimmon-Peretz. 20They moved on from Rimmon-Peretz and camped at Livnah. 21They moved on from Livnah and camped at Rissah. 22They moved on from Rissah and camped at K’helah. 23They moved on from K’helah and camped at Mount Shefer. 24They moved on from Mount Shefer and camped at Haradah. 25They moved on from Haradah and camped at Mak’helot. 26They moved on from Mak’helot and camped at Tachat. 27They moved on from Tachat and camped at Terach. 28They moved on from Terach and camped at Mitkah. 29They moved on from Mitkah and camped at HaShmonah. 30They moved on from HaShmonah and camped at Moserot. 31They moved on from Moserot and camped at B’nei-Ya‘akan. 32They moved on from B’nei-Ya‘akan and camped at Hor-HaGidgad. 33They moved on from Hor-HaGidgad and camped at Yotvatah. 34They moved on from Yotvatah and camped at Avronah. 35They moved on from Avronah and camped at ‘Etzyon-Gever. 36They moved on from ‘Etzyon-Gever and camped in the Tzin Desert, that is, Kadesh.
37They moved on from Kadesh and camped at Mount Hor, at the border of the land of Edom. 38At Adonai’s order Aharon the cohen went up on Mount Hor, and he died there on the first day of the fifth month of the fortieth year after the people of Isra’el had left the land of Egypt. 39Aharon was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor. 40The Kena‘ani king of ‘Arad, who lived in the Negev in the land of Kena‘an, had heard that the people of Isra’el were coming; 41so they moved on from Mount Hor and camped at Tzalmonah.
42They moved on from Tzalmonah and camped at Punon. 43They moved on from Punon and camped at Ovot. 44They moved on from Ovot and camped ‘Iyei-Ha‘Avarim, at the border of Mo’av. 45They moved on from ‘Iyim and camped at Divon-Gad. 46They moved on from Divon-Gad and camped at ‘Almon-Divlatayim. 47They moved on from Almon-Divlatayim and camped in the ‘Avarim Range, in front of N’vo. 48They moved on from the ‘Avarim Range and camped in the plains of Mo’av by the Yarden, across from Yericho. 49Their camp by the Yarden extended from Beit-HaYeshimot all the way to Avel-HaSheetim in the plains of Mo’av.
(RY: v; LY: iii) 50Adonai spoke to Moshe in the plains of Mo’av by the Yarden, across from Yericho. He said 51to tell the people of Isra’el, “When you cross the Yarden into the land of Kena‘an, 52you are to expel all the people living in the land from in front of you. Destroy all their stone figures, destroy all their metal statues and demolish all their high places. 53Drive out the inhabitants of the land, and live in it, for I have given the land to you to possess. 54You will inherit the land by lot according to your families. You are to give more land to the larger families and less to the smaller ones. Wherever the lot falls to any particular person, that will be his property. You will inherit according to the tribes of your ancestors. 55But if you don’t drive out the inhabitants of the land from in front of you, then those you allow to remain will become like thorns in your eyes and stings in your sides — they will harass you in the land where you are living. 56And in this event, I will do to you what I intended to do to them.”
