1(A: v, S: iv) On the day Moshe finished putting up the tabernacle, he anointed and consecrated it, all its furnishings, and the altar with its utensils. After anointing and consecrating them, 2the leaders of Isra’el, who were heads of their father’s clans, made an offering. These were the tribal leaders in charge of those counted in the census. 3They brought their offering before Adonai, six covered wagons and twelve oxen — a wagon for every two leaders and for each an ox — and presented them in front of the tabernacle.
4Adonai said to Moshe, 5“Receive these from them; they are to be used for the service in the tent of meeting. Give them to the L’vi’im, to each as needed for his duties.” 6So Moshe took the wagons and oxen and gave them to the L’vi’im. 7He gave two wagons and four oxen to the descendants of Gershon, in keeping with the needs of their duties. 8Four wagons and eight oxen he gave to the descendants of M’rari, in keeping with the needs of their duties, directed by Itamar the son of Aharon the cohen. 9But to the descendants of K’hat he gave none, because their duties involved the holy articles, which they carried on their own shoulders.
10The leaders brought the offering for dedicating the altar on the day it was anointed. The leaders brought their offering before the altar, 11and Adonai said to Moshe, “They are to present their offerings to dedicate the altar, each leader on his own day.”
(S: v) 12Nachshon the son of ‘Amminadav, from the tribe of Y’hudah, presented his offering on the first day. 13He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 14one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 15one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 16one male goat as a sin offering, 17and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Nachshon the son of ‘Amminadav.
18On the second day N’tan’el the son of Tzu‘ar, leader of Yissakhar, presented his offering. 19He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 20one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 21one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 22one male goat as a sin offering, 23and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of N’tan’el the son of Tzu‘ar.
24On the third day Eli’av the son of Helon, leader of Z’vulun, presented his offering. 25He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 26one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 27one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 28one male goat as a sin offering, 29and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Eli’av the son of Helon.
30On the fourth day was Elitzur the son of Sh’de’ur, leader of the descendants of Re’uven. 31He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 32one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 33one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 34one male goat as a sin offering, 35and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elitzur the son of Sh’de’ur.
36On the fifth day was Shlumi’el the son of Tzurishaddai, leader of the descendants of Shim‘on. 37He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 38one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 39one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 40one male goat as a sin offering, 41and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Shlumi’el the son of Tzurishaddai.
(vi) 42On the sixth day was Elyasaf the son of De‘u’el, leader of the descendants of Gad. 43He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 44one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 45one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 46one male goat as a sin offering, 47and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elyasaf the son of De‘u’el.
48On the seventh day was Elishama the son of ‘Ammihud, leader of the descendants of Efrayim. 49He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 50one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 51one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 52one male goat as a sin offering, 53and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elishama the son of ‘Ammihud.
54On the eighth day was Gamli’el the son of P’dahtzur, leader of the descendants of M’nasheh. 55He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 56one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 57one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 58one male goat as a sin offering, 59and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Gamli’el the son of P’dahtzur.
60On the ninth day was Avidan the son of Gid‘oni, leader of the descendants of Binyamin. 61He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 62one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 63one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 64one male goat as a sin offering, 65and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Avidan the son of Gid‘oni.
66On the tenth day was Achi‘ezer the son of ‘Ammishaddai, leader of the descendants of Dan. 67He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 68one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 69one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 70one male goat as a sin offering, 71and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Achi‘ezer the son of ‘Ammishaddai.
(vii) 72On the eleventh day was Pag‘i’el the son of ‘Okhran, leader of the descendants of Asher. 73He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 74one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 75one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 76one male goat as a sin offering, 77and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Pag‘i’el the son of ‘Okhran.
78On the twelfth day was Achira the son of ‘Enan, leader of the descendants of Naftali. 79He offered one silver dish weighing 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and one silver basin of seventy shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-and-three-quarters pounds], both full of fine flour mixed with olive oil for a grain offering; 80one gold pan of ten shekels [one-quarter pound], full of incense; 81one young bull, one ram, one male lamb in its first year as a burnt offering, 82one male goat as a sin offering, 83and, for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Achira the son of ‘Enan.
84This was the offering for dedicating the altar which was given by the leaders of Isra’el on the day of its anointing: twelve silver dishes, twelve silver basins and twelve gold pans. 85Each silver dish weighed 130 shekels [three-and-a-quarter pounds] and each basin seventy shekels [one-and-three-quarters pounds]; all the silver of the vessels weighed 2,400 shekels (using the sanctuary shekel) [just over sixty pounds]. 86The twelve gold pans, full of incense, weighed ten shekels apiece (using the sanctuary shekel) [one-quarter pound]; all the gold of the pans weighed 120 shekels [three pounds]. (Maftir) 87The livestock for the burnt offering consisted of twelve bulls, twelve rams and twelve male lambs in their first year, with their grain offering. There were twelve male goats for a sin offering. 88The livestock for the sacrifice of peace offerings consisted of twenty-four bulls, sixty rams, sixty male goats and sixty male lambs in their first year. This was the offering for dedicating the altar after it had been anointed.
89When Moshe went into the tent of meeting in order to speak with Adonai, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the ark-cover on the ark for the testimony, from between the two k’ruvim; and he spoke to him.
Haftarah Naso: Shof’tim (Judges) 13:2–25
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah Naso: Yochanan (John) 7:53–8:11; Acts 21:17–32
