1(v) Adonai said to Moshe, 2“Give an order to the people of Isra’el. Tell them, ‘You are to take care to offer me at the proper time the food presented to me as offerings made by fire, providing a fragrant aroma for me.’ 3Tell them, ‘This is the offering made by fire that you are to bring to Adonai: male lambs in their first year and without defect, two daily as a regular burnt offering. 4Offer the one lamb in the morning and the other lamb at dusk, 5along with two quarts of fine flour as a grain offering, mixed with one quart of oil from pressed olives. 6It is the regular burnt offering, the same as was offered on Mount Sinai to give a fragrant aroma, an offering made by fire for Adonai. 7Its drink offering is to be one-quarter hin for one lamb; in the Holy Place you are to pour out a drink offering of intoxicating liquor to Adonai. 8The other lamb you are to present at dusk; present it with the same kind of grain offering and drink offering as in the morning; it is an offering made by fire, with a fragrant aroma for Adonai.
9“‘On Shabbat offer two male lambs in their first year and without defect, with one gallon of fine flour as a grain offering, mixed with olive oil, and its drink offering. 10This is the burnt offering for every Shabbat, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
11“‘At each Rosh-Hodesh of yours, you are to present a burnt offering to Adonai consisting of two young bulls, one ram and seven male lambs in their first year and without defect; 12with six quarts of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for the one ram; 13and two quarts of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering for each lamb. This will be the burnt offering giving a fragrant aroma, an offering made by fire for Adonai. 14Their drink offerings will be two quarts of wine for a bull, one-and-one-third quarts for the ram, and one quart for each lamb. This is the burnt offering for every Rosh-Hodesh throughout the months of the year. 15Also a male goat is to be offered as a sin offering to Adonai, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
(vi) 16“‘In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Adonai’s Pesach. 17On the fifteenth day of the month is to be a feast. Matzah is to be eaten for seven days. 18The first day is to be a holy convocation: do not do any kind of ordinary work; 19but present an offering made by fire, a burnt offering, to Adonai, consisting of two young bulls, one ram, and seven male lambs in their first year (they are to be without defect for you) 20with their grain offering, fine flour mixed with olive oil. Offer six quarts for a bull, four quarts for the ram, 21and two quarts for each of the seven lambs; 22also a male goat as a sin offering, to make atonement for you. 23You are to offer these in addition to the morning burnt offering, which is the regular burnt offering. 24In this fashion you are to offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, making a fragrant aroma for Adonai ; it is to be offered in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering. 25On the seventh day you are to have a holy convocation; do not do any kind of ordinary work.
26“‘On the day of the firstfruits, when you bring a new grain offering to Adonai in your feast of Shavu‘ot, you are to have a holy convocation; do not do any kind of ordinary work; 27but present a burnt offering as a fragrant aroma for Adonai, consisting of two young bulls, one ram, seven male lambs in their first year, 28and their grain offering — fine flour mixed with olive oil, six quarts for each bull, four quarts for the one ram, 29and two quarts for each of the seven lambs — 30plus a male goat to make atonement for you. 31You are to offer these in addition to the regular burnt offering and its grain offering (they are to be without defect for you), with their drink offerings.
