1The man had sexual relations with Havah his wife; she conceived, gave birth to Kayin [acquisition] and said, “I have acquired a man from Adonai.” 2In addition she gave birth to his brother Hevel. Hevel kept sheep, while Kayin worked the soil. 3In the course of time Kayin brought an offering to Adonai from the produce of the soil; 4and Hevel too brought from the firstborn of his sheep, including their fat. Adonai accepted Hevel and his offering 5but did not accept Kayin and his offering. Kayin was very angry, and his face fell. 6Adonai said to Kayin, “Why are you angry? Why so downcast? 7If you are doing what is good, shouldn’t you hold your head high? And if you don’t do what is good, sin is crouching at the door — it wants you, but you can rule over it.” 8Kayin had words with Hevel his brother; then one time, when they were in the field, Kayin turned on Hevel his brother and killed him.
9Adonai said to Kayin, “Where is Hevel your brother?” And he replied, “I don’t know; am I my brother’s guardian?” 10He said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood is crying out to me from the ground! 11Now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood at your hands. 12When you farm the ground it will no longer yield its strength to you. You will be a fugitive, wandering the earth.” 13Kayin said to Adonai, “My punishment is greater than I can bear. 14You are banning me today from the land and from your presence. I will be a fugitive wandering the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me.” 15Adonai answered him, “Therefore, whoever kills Kayin will receive vengeance sevenfold,” and Adonai put a sign on Kayin, so that no one who found him would kill him. 16So Kayin left the presence of Adonai and lived in the land of Nod [wandering], east of ‘Eden.
17Kayin had sexual relations with his wife; she conceived and gave birth to Hanokh. Kayin built a city and named the city after his son Hanokh. 18To Hanokh was born ‘Irad. ‘Irad fathered Mechuya’el, Mechuya’el fathered Metusha’el, and Metusha’el fathered Lemekh.
(S: v) 19Lemekh took himself two wives; the name of the one was ‘Adah, while the name of the other was Tzilah. 20‘Adah gave birth to Yaval; he was the ancestor of those who live in tents and have cattle. 21His brother’s name was Yuval; and he was the ancestor of all who play lyre and flute. 22Tzilah gave birth to Tuval-Kayin, who forged all kinds of tools from brass and iron; the sister of Tuval-Kayin was Na‘amah. 23Lemekh said to his wives,
“‘Adah and Tzilah, listen to me;
wives of Lemekh, hear what I say:
I killed a man for wounding me,
a young man who injured me.
24If Kayin will be avenged sevenfold,
then Lemekh seventy-sevenfold!”
25Adam again had sexual relations with his wife, and she gave birth to a son whom she named Shet [granted], “For God has granted me another seed in place of Hevel, since Kayin killed him.” 26To Shet too was born a son, whom he called Enosh. That is when people began to call on the name of Adonai.
