1(vi) Avraham took another wife, whose name was K’turah. 2She bore him Zimran, Yokshan, Medan, Midyan, Yishbak; and Shuach. 3Yokshan fathered Sh’va and D’dan. The sons of D’dan were Ashurim, L’tushim and L’umim. 4The sons of Midyan were ‘Eifah, ‘Efer, Hanokh, Avida and Elda‘ah. All these were descendants of K’turah.
5Avraham gave everything he owned to Yitz’chak. 6But to the sons of the concubines he made grants while he was still living and sent them off to the east, to the land of Kedem, away from Yitz’chak his son.
7This is how long Avraham lived: 175 years. 8Then Avraham breathed his last, dying at a ripe old age, an old man full of years; and he was gathered to his people. 9Yitz’chak and Yishma‘el his sons buried him in the cave of Makhpelah, in the field of ‘Efron the son of Tzochar the Hitti, by Mamre, 10the field which Avraham purchased from the sons of Het. Avraham was buried there with Sarah his wife.
11After Avraham died, God blessed Yitz’chak his son, and Yitz’chak lived near Be’er-Lachai-Ro’i.
(vii) 12Here is the genealogy of Yishma‘el, Avraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian woman bore to Avraham. 13These are the names of the sons of Yishma‘el, listed in the order of their birth. The firstborn of Yishma‘el was N’vayot; followed by Kedar, Adbe’el, Mivsam, 14Mishma, Dumah, Massa, 15Hadad, Teima, Y’tur, Nafish and Kedmah. (Maftir) 16These are the sons of Yishma‘el, and these are their names, according to their settlements and camps, twelve tribal rulers.
17This is how long Yishma‘el lived: 137 years. Then he breathed his last, died and was gathered to his people.
18Yishma‘el’s sons lived between Havilah and Shur, near Egypt as you go toward Ashur; he settled near all his kinsmen.
Haftarah Hayyei-Sarah: M’lakhim Alef (1 Kings) 1:1–31
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah Hayyei-Sarah: Mattityahu (Matthew) 8:19–22; 27:3–10; Luke 9:57–62
Parashah 6: Tol’dot (History) 25:19–28:9
19Here is the history of Yitz’chak, Avraham’s son. Avraham fathered Yitz’chak. 20Yitz’chak was forty years old when he took Rivkah, the daughter of B’tu’el the Arami from Paddan-Aram and sister of Lavan the Arami, to be his wife. 21Yitz’chak prayed to Adonai on behalf of his wife, because she was childless. Adonai heeded his prayer, and Rivkah became pregnant. 22The children fought with each other inside her so much that she said, “If it’s going to be like this, why go on living?” So she went to inquire of Adonai, 23who answered her, “There are two nations in your womb. From birth they will be two rival peoples. One of these peoples will be stronger than the other, and the older will serve the younger.”
24When the time for her delivery came, there were twins in her womb. 25The first to come out was reddish and covered all over with hair, like a coat; so they named him ‘Esav [completely formed, that is, having hair already]. 26Then his brother emerged, with his hand holding ‘Esav’s heel, so he was called Ya‘akov [he catches by the heel, he supplants]. Yitz’chak was sixty years old when she bore them.
27The boys grew; and ‘Esav became a skillful hunter, an outdoorsman; while Ya‘akov was a quiet man who stayed in the tents. 28Yitz’chak favored ‘Esav, because he had a taste for game; Rivkah favored Ya‘akov.
29One day when Ya‘akov had cooked some stew, ‘Esav came in from the open country, exhausted, 30and said to Ya‘akov, “Please! Let me gulp down some of that red stuff — that red stuff! I’m exhausted!” (This is why he was called Edom [red].) 31Ya‘akov answered, “First sell me your rights as the firstborn.” 32“Look, I’m about to die!” said ‘Esav. “What use to me are my rights as the firstborn?” 33Ya‘akov said, “First, swear to me!” So he swore to him, thus selling his birthright to Ya‘akov. 34Then Ya‘akov gave him bread and lentil stew; he ate and drank, got up and went on his way. Thus ‘Esav showed how little he valued his birthright.
