1Here is the genealogy of the sons of Noach — Shem, Ham and Yefet; sons were born to them after the flood.
2The sons of Yefet were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Yavan, Tuval, Meshekh and Tiras. 3The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Rifat and Togarmah. 4The sons of Yavan were Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim and Dodanim. 5From these the islands of the nations were divided into their lands, each according to its language, according to their families, in their nations.
6The sons of Ham were Kush, Mitzrayim, Put and Kena‘an. 7The sons of Kush were S’va, Havilah, Savta, Ra‘mah and Savt’kha. The sons of Ra‘mah were Sh’va and D’dan.
8Kush fathered Nimrod, who was the first powerful ruler on earth. 9He was a mighty hunter before Adonai — this is why people say, “Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before Adonai.” 10His kingdom began with Bavel, Erekh, Akkad and Kalneh, in the land of Shin‘ar. 11Ashur went out from that land and built Ninveh, the city Rechovot, Kelach, 12and Resen between Ninveh and Kelach — that one is the great city.
13Mitzrayim fathered the Ludim, the ‘Anamim, the L’havim, the Naftuchim, 14the Patrusim, the Kasluchim (from whom came the P’lishtim) and the Kaftorim.
15Kena‘an fathered Tzidon his firstborn, Het, 16the Y’vusi, the Emori, the Girgashi, 17the Hivi, the ‘Arki, the Sini, 18the Arvadi, the Tz’mari and the Hamati. Afterwards, the families of the Kena‘ani were dispersed. 19The border of the Kena‘ani was from Tzidon, as you go toward G’rar, to ‘Azah; as you go toward S’dom, ‘Amora, Admah and Tzvoyim, to Lesha.
20These were the descendants of Ham, according to their families and languages, in their lands and in their nations.
21Children were also born to Shem, ancestor of all the descendants of ‘Ever and older brother of Yefet. 22The sons of Shem were ‘Elam, Ashur, Arpakhshad, Lud and Aram. 23The sons of Aram were ‘Utz, Hul, Geter and Mash. 24Arpakhshad fathered Shelach, and Shelach fathered ‘Ever. 25To ‘Ever were born two sons. One was given the name Peleg [division], because during his lifetime the earth was divided. His brother’s name was Yoktan. 26Yoktan fathered Almodad, Shelef, Hatzar-Mavet, Yerach, 27Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 28‘Oval, Avima’el, Sheva, 29Ofir, Havilah and Yovav — all these were the sons of Yoktan. 30Their territory stretched from Mesha, as you go toward S’far, to the mountain in the east.
31These were the descendants of Shem, according to their families and languages, in their lands and in their nations.
32These were the families of the sons of Noach, according to their generations, in their nations. From these the nations of the earth were divided up after the flood.
