1Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, along with everything in them. 2On the seventh day God was finished with his work which he had made, so he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. 3God blessed the seventh day and separated it as holy; because on that day God rested from all his work which he had created, so that it itself could produce.
(A: iv, S: ii) 4Here is the history of the heavens and the earth when they were created. On the day when Adonai, God, made earth and heaven, 5there was as yet no wild bush on the earth, and no wild plant had as yet sprung up; for Adonai, God, had not caused it to rain on the earth, and there was no one to cultivate the ground. 6Rather, a mist went up from the earth which watered the entire surface of the ground.
7Then Adonai, God, formed a person from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, so that he became a living being. 8Adonai, God, planted a garden toward the east, in ‘Eden, and there he put the person whom he had formed. 9Out of the ground Adonai, God, caused to grow every tree pleasing in appearance and good for food, including the tree of life in the middle of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
10A river went out of ‘Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided into four streams. 11The name of the first is Pishon; it winds throughout the land of Havilah, where there is gold. 12The gold of that land is good; aromatic resin and onyx stone are also found there. 13The name of the second river is Gichon; it winds throughout the land of Kush. 14The name of the third river is Tigris; it is the one that flows toward the east of Ashur. The fourth river is the Euphrates.
15Adonai, God, took the person and put him in the garden of ‘Eden to cultivate and care for it. 16Adonai, God, gave the person this order: “You may freely eat from every tree in the garden 17except the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. You are not to eat from it, because on the day that you eat from it, it will become certain that you will die.”
18Adonai, God, said, “It isn’t good that the person should be alone. I will make for him a companion suitable for helping him.” 19So from the ground Adonai, God, formed every wild animal and every bird that flies in the air, and he brought them to the person to see what he would call them. Whatever the person would call each living creature, that was to be its name. (S: iii) 20So the person gave names to all the livestock, to the birds in the air and to every wild animal. But for Adam there was not found a companion suitable for helping him.
21Then God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the person; and while he was sleeping, he took one of his ribs and closed up the place from which he took it with flesh. 22The rib which Adonai, God, had taken from the person, he made a woman-person; and he brought her to the man-person. 23The man-person said, “At last! This is bone from my bones and flesh from my flesh. She is to be called Woman , because she was taken out of Man .” 24This is why a man is to leave his father and mother and stick with his wife, and they are to be one flesh.
25They were both naked, the man and his wife, and they were not ashamed.
