1This is the genealogy of ‘Esav (that is, Edom). 2‘Esav chose Kena‘ani women as his wives: ‘Adah the daughter of Eilon the Hitti; Oholivamah the daughter of ‘Anah the daughter of Tziv‘on the Hivi; 3and Basmat Yishma‘el’s daughter, sister of N’vayot. 4‘Adah bore to ‘Esav Elifaz, Basmat bore Re‘u’el, 5and Oholivamah bore Ye‘ush, Ya‘lam and Korach. These were the sons of ‘Esav born to him in the land of Kena‘an.
6‘Esav took his wives, his sons and daughters, the others in his household, his cattle and other animals and everything else he owned, which he had acquired in the land of Kena‘an, and went off to a country distant from his brother Ya‘akov. 7For their possessions had become too great for them to live together, and the countryside through which they were traveling couldn’t support so much livestock. 8So ‘Esav lived in the hill-country of Se‘ir. (‘Esav is Edom.)
9This is the genealogy of ‘Esav the father of Edom in the hill-country of Se‘ir. 10The names of ‘Esav’s sons were Elifaz, son of ‘Adah the wife of ‘Esav, and Re‘u’el the son of Basmat the wife of ‘Esav.
11The sons of Elifaz were Teman, Omar, Tzefo, Ga‘tam and K’naz. 12Timnah was the concubine of Elifaz ‘Esav’s son, and she bore to Elifaz ‘Amalek. These were the descendants of ‘Adah ‘Esav’s wife.
13The sons of Re‘u’el were Nachat, Zerach, Shammah and Mizah. These were the sons of Basmat ‘Esav’s wife.
14These were the sons of Oholivamah, the daughter of ‘Anah the daughter of Tziv‘on, ‘Esav’s wife: she bore to ‘Esav Ye‘ush, Ya‘lam and Korach.
15The chieftains of the sons of ‘Esav were the sons of Elifaz the firstborn of ‘Esav and the chieftains of Teman, Omar, Tzefo, K’naz, 16Korach, Ga‘tam and ‘Amalek. These were the chieftains descended from Elifaz in Edom and from ‘Adah.
17The sons of Re‘u’el ‘Esav’s son were the chieftains of Nachat, Zerach, Shammah and Mizah. These were the chieftains descended from Re‘u’el in the land of Edom and from Basmat ‘Esav’s wife.
18The sons of Oholivamah ‘Esav’s wife were the chieftains of Ye‘ush, Ya‘lam and Korach. These were the chieftains descended from Oholivamah the daughter of ‘Anah, ‘Esav’s wife.
19These were the descendants of ‘Esav (that is, Edom), and these were their chieftains.
(vii) 20These were the descendants of Se‘ir the Hori, the local inhabitants: Lotan, Shoval, Tziv‘on, ‘Anah, 21Dishon, Etzer and Dishan. They were the chieftains descended from the Hori, the people of Se‘ir in the land of Edom. 22The sons of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; Lotan’s sister was Timnah. 23The sons of Shoval were ‘Alvan, Manachat, ‘Eival, Sh’fo and Onam. 24The sons of Tziv‘on were Ayah and ‘Anah. This is the ‘Anah who found the hot springs in the desert while pasturing his father Tziv‘on’s donkeys. 25The children of ‘Anah were Dishon and Oholivamah the daughter of ‘Anah. 26The sons of Dishon were Hemdan, Eshban, Yitran and K’ran. 27The sons of Etzer were Bilhan, Za‘avan and ‘Akan. 28The sons of Dishan were ‘Utz and Aran. 29These were the chieftains descended from the Hori: the chieftains of Lotan, Shoval, Tziv‘on, ‘Anah, 30Dishon, Etzer and Dishan. They were the chieftains descended from the Hori by their clans in Se‘ir.
31Following are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king had reigned over the people of Isra’el. 32Bela the son of B‘or reigned in Edom; the name of his city was Dinhavah. 33When Bela died, Yovav the son of Zerach from Botzrah reigned in his place. 34When Yovav died, Husham from the land of the Temani reigned in his place. 35When Husham died, Hadad the son of B’dad, who killed Midyan in the field of Mo’av, reigned in his place; the name of his city was ‘Avit. 36When Hadad died, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place. 37When Samlah died, Sha’ul of Rechovot-by-the-River reigned in his place. 38When Sha’ul died, Ba‘al-Chanan the son of ‘Akhbor reigned in his place. 39When Ba‘al-Chanan died, Hadar reigned in his place; the name of his city was Pa’u; and his wife’s name was M’heitav’el the daughter of Matred the daughter of Mei-Zahav.
(Maftir) 40These are the names of the chieftains descended from ‘Esav, according to their clans, places and names: the chieftains of Timna, ‘Alvah, Y’tet, 41Oholivamah, Elah, Pinon, 42Kenaz, Teman, Mivtzar, 43Magdi’el and ‘Iram. These were the chieftains of Edom according to their settlements in the land they owned. This is ‘Esav the father of Edom.
Haftarah Vayishlach: Hoshea (Hosea) 11:7–12:12(11) (A); ‘Ovadyah (Obadiah) 1–21 (S)
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah Vayishlach: 1 Corinthians 5:1–13; Revelation 7:1–12
