1From the blue, purple and scarlet yarn they made the garments for officiating, for serving in the Holy Place; and they made the holy garments for Aharon, as Adonai had ordered Moshe. (RY: v, LY: ii) 2He made the ritual vest of gold, of blue, purple and scarlet yarn, and of finely woven linen. 3They hammered the gold into thin plates and cut them into threads in order to work it into the blue, purple and scarlet yarn and the fine linen crafted by the skilled artisan. 4They made shoulder-pieces for it, joined together; they were joined together at the two ends. 5The decorated belt on the vest, used to fasten it, was of the same workmanship and materials — gold; blue, purple and scarlet yarn; and finely twined linen — as Adonai had ordered Moshe. 6They worked the onyx stones, mounted in gold settings, engraving them with the names of the sons of Isra’el as they would be engraved on a seal. 7Then he put them on the shoulder-pieces of the vest to be stones calling to mind the sons of Isra’el, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
8He made the breastplate; it was crafted by a skilled artisan and made like the work of the ritual vest — of gold; blue, purple and scarlet yarn; and finely woven linen. 9When folded double, the breastplate was square — doubled, it was a hand-span by a hand-span. 10They set in it four rows of stones: the first row was a carnelian, a topaz and an emerald; 11the second row a green feldspar, a sapphire and a diamond; 12the third row an orange zircon, an agate and an amethyst; 13and the fourth row a beryl, an onyx and a jasper. They were mounted in settings of gold. 14The stones corresponded to the names of the twelve sons of Isra’el; they were engraved with their names as a seal would be engraved, each name representing one of the twelve tribes.
15On the breastplate they made two pure gold chains, twisted like cords. 16Also for the breastplate they made two settings of gold and two gold rings, and they put the two rings at the two ends of the breastplate. 17They put the two twisted gold chains in the two rings at the ends of the breastplate 18and attached the other two ends of the twisted chains to the front of the shoulder-pieces of the ritual vest. 19They also made two gold rings and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, at its edge, on the side facing in toward the vest. 20Also they made two gold rings and attached them low on the front part of the vest’s shoulder-pieces, near the join, above the vest’s decorated belt. 21Then they bound the breastplate by its rings to the rings of the vest with a blue cord, so that it could be on the vest’s decorated belt, and so that the breastplate would not swing loose from the vest — as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
(RY: vi, LY: iii) 22He made the robe for the ritual vest; it was woven entirely of blue, 23with its opening in the middle, like that of a coat of mail, and with a border around the opening, so that it wouldn’t tear. 24On the bottom hem they made pomegranates of blue, purple and scarlet, and woven linen; 25and they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates all the way around the hem of the robe — between the pomegranates, 26that is, bell, pomegranate, bell, pomegranate, all the way around the hem of the robe for service — as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
27They made the tunics of finely woven linen for Aharon and his sons, 28the turban of fine linen, the splendid headgear of fine linen, the linen shorts, 29and the sash of finely woven linen and blue, purple and scarlet yarn, the work of a weaver in colors — as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
30They made the ornament for the holy turban of pure gold; wrote on it the words, “Set apart for Adonai,” like the engraving on a seal; 31and tied a blue cord on it to fasten it to the front of the turban — as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
32Thus all the work for the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, was finished, with the people of Isra’el doing everything exactly as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
(LY: iv) 33Then they brought the tabernacle to Moshe — the tent and all its furnishings, clasps, planks, crossbars, posts and sockets; 34the covering of tanned ram skins, the covering of fine leather and the curtain for the screen; 35the ark for the testimony, its poles and the ark-cover; 36the table, all its utensils and the showbread; 37the pure menorah, its lamps and their arrangement for display, its accessories and the oil for the light; 38the gold altar; the anointing oil; the fragrant incense; the screen for the entrance to the tent; 39the bronze altar with its bronze grate, poles and all its utensils; the basin with its base; 40the tapestries for the courtyard, with their posts and sockets; the screen for the entrance to the courtyard, with its ropes and tent pegs; all the utensils for the service in the tabernacle, the tent of meeting; 41the garments for officiating, for serving in the Holy Place; the holy garments for Aharon the cohen; and the garments for his sons to serve in the office of cohen.
42The people of Isra’el did all the work just as Adonai had ordered Moshe. 43Moshe saw all the work, and — there it was! — they had done it! Exactly as Adonai had ordered, they had done it. And Moshe blessed them.
