1(RY: vii, LY: v) Adonai said to Moshe, 2“On the first day of the first month, you are to set up the tabernacle, the tent of meeting. 3Put in it the ark for the testimony, and conceal the ark with the curtain. 4Bring in the table, and arrange its display. Bring in the menorah, and light its lamps. 5Set the gold altar for incense in front of the ark for the testimony, and set up the screen at the entrance to the tabernacle. 6Place the altar for burnt offerings in front of the entrance to the tabernacle, the tent of meeting. 7Set the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it. 8Set up the courtyard all the way around, and hang up the screen for the entrance to the courtyard.
9“Take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle and everything in it — consecrate it with all its furnishings; then it will be holy. 10Anoint the altar for burnt offerings with all its utensils — consecrate the altar; then the altar will be especially holy. 11Anoint the basin and its base, and consecrate it.
12“Then bring Aharon and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting and wash them with water. 13Put the holy garments on Aharon, anoint him, and consecrate him, so that he can serve me in the office of cohen. 14Bring his sons, put tunics on them, 15and anoint them as you anointed their father, so that they can serve me in the office of cohen. Their anointing will signify that the office of cohen is theirs through all their generations.”
16Moshe did this — he acted in accordance with everything Adonai had ordered him to do.
(LY: vi) 17On the first day of the first month of the second year, the tabernacle was set up. 18Moshe erected the tabernacle, put its sockets in place, put up its planks, put in its crossbars and set up its posts. 19He spread the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering of the tent above it, as Adonai had ordered Moshe. 20He took and put the testimony inside the ark, put the poles on the ark, and set the ark-cover above, on the ark. 21Then he brought the ark into the tabernacle, set up the curtain as a screen and concealed the ark for the testimony, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
22He put the table in the tent of meeting on the side of the tabernacle facing north, outside the curtain. 23He arranged a row of bread on it before Adonai, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
24He put the menorah in the tent of meeting across from the table, on the side of the tabernacle facing south. 25Then he lit the lamps before Adonai, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
26He set the gold altar in the tent of meeting in front of the curtain 27and burned on it incense made from aromatic spices, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
(LY: vii) 28He set up the screen at the entrance to the tabernacle. 29The altar for burnt offerings he placed at the entrance to the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, and offered on it the burnt offering and the grain offering, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
30He set the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it for washing, 31so that Moshe and Aharon and his sons could wash their hands and feet there — 32so that they could wash when entering the tent of meeting and when approaching the altar, as Adonai had ordered Moshe.
33Finally, he erected the courtyard around the tabernacle and the altar and set up the screen for the entrance to the courtyard.
(Maftir) 34Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of Adonai filled the tabernacle. 35Moshe was unable to enter the tent of meeting, because the cloud remained on it, and the glory of Adonai filled the tabernacle.
36Whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Isra’el continued with all their travels. 37But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not travel onward until the day when it was taken up. 38For the cloud of Adonai was above the tabernacle during the day, and fire was in [the cloud] at night, so that all the house of Isra’el could see it throughout all their travels.
Haftarah P’kudei: M’lakhim Alef (1 Kings) 7:51–8:21 (A); 7:40–50 (S)
B’rit Hadashah suggested reading for Parashah P’kudei: Revelation 15:5–8
Hazak, hazak, v’nit’chazek!
Be strong, be strong, and let us be strengthened!
