1B’tzal’el made the ark of acacia-wood three-and-three-quarters feet long, two-and-a-quarter feet wide and two-and-a-quarter feet high. 2He overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside and put a molding of gold for it around the top. 3He cast four gold rings for it at its four feet, two rings on each side. 4He made poles of acacia-wood and overlaid them with gold. 5He put the carrying-poles for the ark in the rings on the sides of the ark.
6He made a cover for the ark of pure gold, three-and-three-quarters feet long and two-and-a-quarter feet wide. 7He made two k’ruvim of gold; he made them of hammered work for the two ends of the ark-cover — 8one keruv for one end and one keruv for the other end; he made the k’ruvim of one piece with the ark-cover at its two ends. 9The k’ruvim had their wings spread out above, so that their wings covered the ark; their faces were toward each other and toward the ark-cover.
10He made the table of acacia-wood, three feet long, eighteen inches wide and eighteen inches high. 11He overlaid it with pure gold and put a molding of gold around the top of it. 12He made around it a rim a handbreadth wide and put a molding of gold around the rim. 13He cast for it four gold rings and attached the rings to the four corners, near its four legs. 14The rings to hold the carrying-poles for the table were placed close to the rim. 15He made the carrying-poles for the table of acacia-wood and overlaid them with gold. 16He made the utensils to be put on the table — its dishes, pans, bowls and pitchers — of pure gold.
(RY: iii, LY: vi) 17He made the menorah of pure gold. He made it of hammered work; its base, shaft, cups, rings of outer leaves and flowers were a single unit. 18There were six branches extending from its sides, three branches of the menorah on one side of it and three on the other. 19On one branch were three cups shaped like almond blossoms, a ring of outer leaves and petals; likewise on the opposite branch three cups shaped like almond blossoms, a ring of outer leaves and petals; and similarly for all six branches extending from the menorah. 20On the central shaft of the menorah were four cups shaped like almond blossoms, each with its ring of outer leaves and petals. 21Where each pair of branches joined the central shaft was a ring of outer leaves of one piece with the pair of branches — thus for all six branches. 22Their rings of outer leaves and their branches were of one piece with the shaft. Thus the whole menorah was one piece of hammered work made of pure gold. 23He made its seven lamps, its tongs and its trays of pure gold. 24The menorah and its utensils were made of sixty-six pounds of pure gold.
25He made the altar on which to burn incense of acacia-wood, eighteen inches square and three feet high; its horns were a single unit. 26He overlaid it with pure gold — its top, all around its sides and its horns; and he put around it a molding of gold. 27He made two gold rings for it under its molding at the two corners on both sides, to hold the carrying-poles. 28He made the poles of acacia-wood and overlaid them with gold.
29He made the holy anointing oil and the pure incense of aromatic plant substances as would an expert perfume-maker.
