1(A: iii) “You are to make the tabernacle with ten sheets of finely woven linen and with blue, purple and scarlet yarn. You are to make them with k’ruvim worked in, that have been crafted by a skilled artisan. 2Each one is to be forty-two feet long and six feet wide; all the sheets are to be the same size. 3Five sheets are to be joined one to another, and the other five sheets are to be joined one to another. 4Make loops of blue on the edge of the outermost sheet in the first set, and do the same on the edge of the outermost sheet in the second set. 5Make fifty loops on the one sheet, and make fifty loops on the edge of the sheet in the second set; the loops are to be opposite one another. 6Make fifty fasteners of gold, and couple the sheets to each other with the fasteners, so that the tabernacle forms a single unit.
7“You are to make sheets of goat’s hair to be used as a tent covering the tabernacle; make eleven sheets. 8Each sheet is to be forty-five feet long and six feet wide — all eleven sheets are to be the same size. 9Join five sheets together and six sheets together, and fold the sixth sheet double at the front of the tent. 10Make fifty loops on the edge of the outermost sheet in the first set and fifty loops on the edge of the outermost sheet in the second set. 11Make fifty fasteners of bronze, put the fasteners in the loops, and join the tent together, so that it forms a single unit. 12As for the overhanging part that remains of the sheets forming the tent, the half-sheet remaining is to hang over the back of the tabernacle; 13and the eighteen inches on the one side and the eighteen inches on the other side of that remaining in the length of the sheets forming the tent is to hang over the tabernacle to cover it on each side.
14“You are to make a covering for the tent of tanned ram skins and an outer covering of fine leather.
(iv) 15“Make the upright planks for the tabernacle out of acacia-wood. 16Each plank is to be fifteen feet long and two-and-a-quarter feet wide. 17There are to be two projections on each plank, and the planks are to be joined one to another. That is how you are to make all the planks for the tabernacle.
18“Make the planks for the tabernacle as follows: twenty planks for the south side, facing southward. 19Make forty silver sockets under the twenty planks, two sockets under one plank for its two projections and two sockets under another plank for its two projections. 20“For the second side of the tabernacle, to the north, make twenty planks 21and their forty silver sockets, two sockets under one plank and two under another. 22“For the rear part of the tabernacle, toward the west, make six planks. 23For the corners of the tabernacle in the rear, make two planks; 24these are to be double from the bottom all the way to the top but joined at a single ring. Do the same with both of them; they are to form the two corners. 25Thus there will be eight planks with their silver sockets, sixteen sockets, two sockets under one plank and two under another.
26“Make crossbars of acacia-wood, five for the planks of the one side of the tabernacle, 27five crossbars for the planks of the other side of the tabernacle, and five crossbars for the planks at the side of the tabernacle at the rear toward the west. 28The middle crossbar, halfway up the planks, is to extend from end to end. 29Overlay the planks with gold, make gold rings for them through which the crossbars will pass, and overlay the crossbars with gold.
30“You are to erect the tabernacle according to the design you have been shown on the mountain.
(v) 31“You are to make a curtain of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely woven linen. Make it with k’ruvim worked in, that have been crafted by a skilled artisan. 32Hang it with gold hooks on four acacia-wood posts overlaid with gold and standing in four silver sockets. 33Hang the curtain below the fasteners. Then bring the ark for the testimony inside the curtain; the curtain will be the divider for you between the Holy Place and the Especially Holy Place. 34You are to put the ark-cover on the ark for the testimony in the Especially Holy Place.
35“You are to put the table outside the curtain and the menorah opposite the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south; put the table on the north side.
36“For the entrance to the tent, make a screen of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely woven linen; it should be in colors, the work of a weaver. 37For the screen, make five posts of acacia-wood; overlay them with gold; and cast for them five sockets of bronze.
