1To Moshe [Adonai] said, “Come up to Adonai — you, Aharon, Nadav, Avihu, and seventy of the leaders of Isra’el. Prostrate yourselves at a distance, 2while Moshe alone approaches Adonai — the others are not to approach, and the people are not to go up with him.” 3Moshe came and told the people everything Adonai had said, including all the rulings. The people answered with one voice: “We will obey every word Adonai has spoken.”
4Moshe wrote down all the words of Adonai. He rose early in the morning, built an altar at the base of the mountain and set upright twelve large stones to represent the twelve tribes of Isra’el. 5He sent the young men of the people of Isra’el to offer burnt offerings and sacrifice peace offerings of oxen to Adonai. 6Moshe took half of the blood and put it in basins; the other half of the blood he splashed against the altar. 7Then he took the book of the covenant and read it aloud, so that the people could hear; and they responded, “Everything that Adonai has spoken, we will do and obey.” 8Moshe took the blood, sprinkled it on the people and said, “This is the blood of the covenant which Adonai has made with you in accordance with all these words.”
9Moshe, Aharon, Nadav, Avihu and seventy of the leaders went up; 10and they saw the God of Isra’el. Under his feet was something like a sapphire stone pavement as clear as the sky itself. 11He did not reach out his hand against these notables of Isra’el; on the contrary, they saw God, even as they were eating and drinking.
12Adonai said to Moshe, “Come up to me on the mountain, and stay there. I will give you the stone tablets with the Torah and the mitzvot I have written on them, so that you can teach them.” 13Moshe got up, also Y’hoshua his assistant; and Moshe went up onto the mountain of God. 14To the leaders he said, “Stay here for us, until we come back to you. See, Aharon and Hur are with you; whoever has a problem should turn to them.” (S: Maftir) 15Moshe went up onto the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain. (A: Maftir) 16The glory of Adonai stayed on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it for six days. On the seventh day he called to Moshe out of the cloud. 17To the people of Isra’el the glory of Adonai looked like a raging fire on the top of the mountain. 18Moshe entered the cloud and went up on the mountain; he was on the mountain forty days and nights.
Haftarah Mishpatim: Yirmeyahu (Jeremiah) 34:8–22; 33:25–26
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah Mishpatim: Mattityahu (Matthew) 5:38–42; 15:1–20; Mark 7:1–23; Acts 23:1–11; Messianic Jews (Hebrews) 9:15–22; 10:28–39
