1(iv) “Here is what you are to do to consecrate them for ministry to me in the office of cohen. Take one young bull and two rams without defect, 2also matzah, matzah cakes mixed with olive oil, and matzah wafers spread with oil — all made from fine wheat flour; 3put them together in a basket, and present them in the basket, along with the bull and the two rams.
4“Bring Aharon and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting, and wash them with water. 5Take the garments, and put on Aharon the tunic, the robe for the ritual vest, the vest itself, and the breastplate. Fasten the vest on him with its belt. 6Put the turban on his head and attach the holy ornament to the turban. 7Then take the anointing oil, and anoint him by pouring it on his head. 8Bring his sons; put tunics on them; 9wrap sashes around them, Aharon and his sons; and put the headgear on their heads. The office of cohen is to be theirs by a permanent regulation. Thus you will consecrate Aharon and his sons.
10“Bring the young bull to the front of the tent of meeting. Aharon and his sons are to lay their hands on the bull’s head, 11and you are to slaughter the bull in the presence of Adonai at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 12Take some of the bull’s blood, and put it on the horns of the altar with your finger; pour out all the rest of the blood at the base of the altar. 13Take all the fat that covers the inner organs, the covering of the liver and the two kidneys with their fat, and offer them up in smoke on the altar. 14But the bull’s flesh, skin and dung you are to destroy by fire outside the camp; it is a sin offering.
15“Take one of the rams: Aharon and his sons are to lay their hands on the ram’s head; 16and you are to slaughter the ram, take its blood, and splash it on all sides of the altar. 17Quarter the ram, wash the inner organs and the lower parts of the legs, and put them with the quarters and the head. 18Then offer up the whole ram in smoke on the altar. It is a burnt offering for Adonai, a pleasing aroma, an offering made to Adonai by fire.
(v) 19“Take the other ram: Aharon and his sons are to lay their hands on the ram’s head; 20and you are to slaughter the ram, take some of its blood, and put it on the lobe of Aharon’s right ear, on the lobes of his sons’ right ears, on the thumbs of their right hands and on the big toes of their right feet. Take the rest of the blood and splash it on all sides of the altar. 21Then take some of the blood that is on the altar and some of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aharon and his clothing and on his sons and the clothing of his sons with him; so that he and his clothing will be consecrated, and with him his sons and his sons’ clothing. 22Also take the fat from the ram, the fat tail, the fat that covers the inner organs, the two kidneys, the fat covering them and the right thigh — for it is a ram of consecration — 23along with one loaf of bread, one cake of oiled bread and one wafer from the basket of matzah which is before Adonai — 24and put it all in the hands of Aharon and his sons. They are to wave them as a wave offering in the presence of Adonai. 25Then take them back; and burn them up in smoke on the altar, on top of the burnt offering, to be a pleasing aroma before Adonai; it is an offering made to Adonai by fire.
26“Take the breast of the ram for Aharon’s consecration, and wave it as a wave offering before Adonai; it will be your share. 27Consecrate the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of any contribution that has been waved and raised up, whether from the ram of consecration, or from anything else meant for Aharon or his sons; 28this will belong to Aharon and his sons as their share perpetually due from the people of Isra’el — it will be a contribution from the people of Isra’el from their peace offerings, their contribution to Adonai.
29“The holy garments of Aharon will be used by his sons after him; they will be anointed and consecrated in them. 30The son who becomes cohen in his place, who comes into the tent of meeting to serve in the Holy Place, is to wear them for seven days. 31Take the ram of consecration, and boil its meat in a holy place. 32Aharon and his sons will eat the ram’s meat and the bread in the basket at the entrance to the tent of meeting. 33They are to eat the things with which atonement was made for them, to inaugurate and consecrate them; no one else may eat this food, because it is holy. 34If any of the meat for the consecration or any of the bread remains until morning, burn up what remains; it is not to be eaten, because it is holy. 35Carry out all these orders I have given you concerning Aharon and his sons. You are to spend seven days consecrating them.
36“Each day, offer a young bull as a sin offering, besides the other offerings of atonement; offer the sin offering on the altar as your atonement for it; then anoint it to consecrate it. 37Seven days you will make atonement on the altar and consecrate it; thus the altar will be especially holy, and whatever touches the altar will become holy.
(vi) 38“Now this is what you are to offer on the altar: two lambs a year old, regularly, every day. 39The one lamb you are to offer in the morning and the other lamb at dusk. 40With the one lamb offer two quarts of finely ground flour mixed with one quart of oil from pressed olives; along with one quart of wine as a drink offering. 41The other lamb you are to offer at dusk; do with it as with the morning grain and drink offerings — it will be a pleasing aroma, an offering made to Adonai by fire. 42Through all your generations this is to be the regular burnt offering at the entrance to the tent of meeting before Adonai. There is where I will meet with you to speak with you. 43There I will meet with the people of Isra’el; and the place will be consecrated by my glory. 44I will consecrate the tent of meeting and the altar, likewise I will consecrate Aharon and his sons to serve me in the office of cohen. 45Then I will live with the people of Isra’el and be their God: 46they will know that I am Adonai their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt in order to live with them. I am Adonai their God.
