1(vii) “You are to make an altar on which to burn incense; make it of acacia-wood. 2It is to be eighteen inches square and three feet high; its horns are to be of one piece with it. 3Overlay it with pure gold — its top, all around its sides, and its horns; and put around it a molding of gold. 4Make two gold rings for it under its molding at the two corners on both sides; this is where the carrying-poles will go. 5Make the poles of acacia-wood, and overlay them with gold.
6“Place it in front of the curtain by the ark for the testimony, in front of the ark-cover that is over the testimony, where I will meet with you. 7Aharon will burn fragrant incense on it as a pleasing aroma every morning; he is to burn it when he prepares the lamps. (Maftir) 8Aharon is also to burn it when he lights the lamps at dusk; this is the regular burning of incense before Adonai through all your generations. 9You are not to offer unauthorized incense on it, or a burnt offering or a grain offering; and you are not to pour a drink offering on it. 10Aharon is to make atonement on its horns once a year — with the blood of the sin offering of atonement he is to make atonement for it once a year through all your generations; it is especially holy to Adonai.”
Haftarah Tetzaveh: Yechezk’el (Ezekiel) 43:10–27
B’rit Hadashah suggested reading for Parashah Tetzaveh: Philippians 4:10–20
Parashah 21: Ki Tissa (When you take) 30:11–34:35
11Adonai said to Moshe, 12“When you take a census of the people of Isra’el and register them, each, upon registration, is to pay a ransom for his life to Adonai, to avoid any breakout of plague among them during the time of the census. 13Everyone subject to the census is to pay as an offering to Adonai half a shekel [one-fifth of an ounce of silver]— by the standard of the sanctuary shekel (a shekel equals twenty gerahs). 14Everyone over twenty years of age who is subject to the census is to give this offering to Adonai — 15the rich is not to give more or the poor less than the half-shekel when giving Adonai’s offering to atone for your lives. 16You are to take the atonement money from the people of Isra’el and use it for the service in the tent of meeting, so that it will be a reminder of the people of Isra’el before Adonai to atone for your lives.”
17Adonai said to Moshe, 18“You are to make a basin of bronze, with a base of bronze, for washing. Place it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it. 19Aharon and his sons will wash their hands and feet there 20when they enter the tent of meeting — they are to wash with water, so that they won’t die. Also when they approach the altar to minister by burning an offering for Adonai, 21they are to wash their hands and feet, so that they won’t die. This is to be a perpetual law for them through all their generations.”
22Adonai said to Moshe, 23“Take the best spices — 500 shekels of myrrh [12 1/2 pounds], half this amount (250 shekels) of aromatic cinnamon [6 1/4 pounds], 250 shekels of aromatic cane, 24500 shekels of cassia (use the sanctuary standard), and one gallon of olive oil — 25and make them into a holy anointing oil; blend it and perfume it as would an expert perfume-maker; it will be a holy anointing oil. 26Use it to anoint the tent of meeting, the ark for the testimony, 27the table and all its utensils, the menorah and all its utensils, the incense altar, 28the altar for burnt offerings and all its utensils, and the basin with its base. 29You are to consecrate them — they will be especially holy, and whatever touches them will be holy. 30Then you are to anoint Aharon and his sons — you are to consecrate them to serve me in the office of cohen.
31“Tell the people of Isra’el, ‘This is to be a holy anointing oil for me through all your generations. 32It is not to be used for anointing a person’s body; and you are not to make any like it, with the same composition of ingredients — it is holy, and you are to treat it as holy. 33Whoever makes any like it or uses it on any unauthorized person is to be cut off from his people.’”
34Adonai said to Moshe, “Take aromatic plant substances — balsam resin, sweet onycha root and bitter galbanum gum — these spices along with frankincense, all in equal quantities; 35and make incense, blended and perfumed as would an expert perfume-maker, salted, pure and holy. 36You are to grind up some of it very finely and put it in front of the testimony in the tent of meeting where I will meet with you; you are to regard it as especially holy. 37You are not to make for your own use any incense like it, with the same composition of ingredients — you are to treat it as holy, for Adonai. 38Whoever makes up any like it to use as perfume is to be cut off from his people.”
