1(vi) “You are to make the altar of acacia-wood, seven-and-a-half feet long and seven-and-a-half feet wide — the altar is to be square and four-and-a-half feet high. 2Make horns for it on its four corners; the horns are to be of one piece with it; and you are to overlay it with bronze.
3“Make its pots for removing ashes, and its shovels, basins, meat-hooks and fire pans; all its utensils you are to make of bronze. 4Make for it a grate of bronze netting; and on the four corners of the netting, make four bronze rings. 5Put it under the rim of the altar, so that the netting reaches halfway up the altar. 6Make poles of acacia-wood for the altar and overlay them with bronze. 7Its poles are to be put into the rings; the poles are to be on both sides of the altar for carrying it. 8The altar is to be made of planks and hollow inside. They are to make it just as you were shown on the mountain.
(vii) 9“Here is how you are to make the courtyard of the tabernacle. On the south side, facing southward, are to be tapestries for the courtyard made of finely woven linen, 150 feet for one side, 10supported on twenty posts in twenty bronze sockets; the hooks on the posts and the attached rings for hanging are to be of silver. 11Likewise, along the north side are to be tapestries 150 feet long, hung on twenty posts in twenty bronze sockets, with silver hooks and rings for the posts. 12Across the width of the courtyard on the west side are to be tapestries seventy-five feet long, hung on ten posts in ten sockets. 13The width of the courtyard on the east side, facing east, will be seventy-five feet. 14The tapestries for one side [of the gateway] will be twenty-two-and-a-half feet long, hung on three posts in three sockets; 15for the other side there will be tapestries twenty-two-and-a-half feet long on three posts in three sockets.
16“For the gateway of the courtyard there is to be a screen thirty feet made of blue, purple and scarlet yarn and finely woven linen. It should be in colors, the work of a weaver. It is to be on four posts in four sockets. (Maftir) 17All the posts all the way around the courtyard are to be banded with silver and to stand in sockets of bronze. 18The length of the courtyard is to be 150 feet and the width seventy-five feet everywhere; with the height seven-and-a-half feet. The tapestries and screen are to be of finely woven linen, and the sockets are to be of bronze.
19“All the equipment needed for every kind of service in the tabernacle, as well as the tent pegs for the tabernacle and for the courtyard, are to be of bronze.
Haftarah T’rumah: M’lakhim Alef (1 Kings) 5:26(12)– 6:13
B’rit Hadashah suggested readings for Parashah T’rumah: Messianic Jews (Hebrews) 8:1–6; 9:23–24; 10:1
Parashah 20: Tetzaveh (You are to order) 27:20 –30:10
20“You are to order the people of Isra’el to bring you pure oil of pounded olives for the light, and to keep a lamp burning continually. 21Aharon and his sons are to put it in the tent of meeting, outside the curtain in front of the testimony, and keep it burning from evening until morning before Adonai. This is to be a permanent regulation through all the generations of the people of Isra’el.
